Captain.
Yes, sir?
Tell them we wish to board at once.
Yes, sir.
With all due respect the ambassadors for the supreme chancellor wish to board immediately.
Yes, yes, of course as you know, our blockade is perfectly legal, and we'd be happy to receive the Ambassador. Happy to.
I'm TC-14 at your service. This way, please.
We are greatly honored by your visit, Ambassadors. Make yourselves comfortable. My master will be with you shortly.
I have a bad feeling about this.
I don't sense anything.
It's not about the mission, Master, it's something, elsewhere, elusive.
Don't center on your anxiety, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration here and now where it belongs.
Master Yoda says I should be mindful of the future
but not at the expense of the moment. Be mindful of the living Force, my young Padawan.
Yes, Master how do you think the trade viceroy will deal with the chancellor's demands?
These Federation types are cowards. The negotiations will be short.
What?!? What did you say?
The Ambassadors are Jedi Knights, I believe.
I knew it! They were sent to force a settlement, eh.
Distract them. I will contact Lord Sidious.
Are you brain-dead? I'm not going in there with two Jedi .Send a droid.
Is it in their nature to make us wait this long?
No. I sense an unusual amount of fear for something as trivial as this trade dispute.
What is it?
This scheme of yours has failed, Lord Sidious. The blockade is finished. We dare not go against these Jedi.
Viceroy, I don't want this stunted slime in my sight again. This turn of events is unfortunate. We must accelerate our plans. Begin landing your troops.
My lord, is that legal?
I will make it legal.
And the Jedi?
The chancellor should never have brought them into this. Kill them immediately.
Yes, my lord. As you wish.
Captain, look!
Shields up!
Sorry.
Dioxis.
They must be dead by now. Blast, what's left of them.
Oh, excuse me, so sorry.
Check it out, Corporal. We'll cover you.
Roger, roger.
Blast them.
What in blazes is going on down there?
We lost the transmission, sir.
Have you ever encountered a Jedi Knight before, sir?
Well, not exactly, but I don't seal off the bridge.
That won't be enough, sir.
I want destroyer droids up here at once!
We will not survive this.
Close the blast doors!
That will hold them.
They're still coming through!
Impossible! This is impossible!
Where are those destroyer droids?!
Master! Destroyers!
They have shield generators!
It's a standoff. Let's go.
They're no match for destroyer droids.
Sir, they've gone up the ventilation shaft.
Battle droids.
It's an invasion army.
It's an odd play for the Trade Federation. We've got to warn the Naboo and contact Chancellor Valorum. Let's split up. Stow aboard separate ships and meet down on the planet.
You were right about one thing, Master. The negotiations were short.
Sir, a transmission from the planet.
It's Queen Amidala herself.
At last we're getting results.
Again you come before me, Your highness.
You will not be pleased when you hear what I have to say, Viceroy Your trade boycott of our planet has ended.
I was not aware of such a failure.
I have word that the chancellor's ambassadors are with you now and that you have been commanded to reach settlement.
I know nothing of any ambassadors. You must be mistaken.
Beware, Viceroy the Federation is going too far this time.
We would never do anything without the approval of the senate. You assume too much.
We will see.
She's right, the Senate will never
It's too late now.
Do you think she suspects an attack?
I don't know, but we must move quickly to disrupt all communications down there.
Negotiations haven't started because the ambassadors aren't there? How could that be true? I have assurances from the chancellor his ambassadors did arrive. It must handiwork negotiate ambassadors
Senator Palpatine?!? What's happening?
Check the transmission generators
A communications disruption can mean only one thing: invasion.
It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness.
A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion.
The Federation would not dare go that far.
The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be finished.
We must continue to rely on negotiation.
Negotiation? We've lost all communications! and where are the Chancellors Ambassadors?
This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army.
I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.
Yes, Viceroy ?
Captain, we've searched the ship and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotten on one of your landing craft.
If they are down here, sir, we'll find them.
Use caution. These Jedi are not to be underestimated.
Oh, noooooooooo!
Get away! Get out of here! Get down!
Was'n dat? Hey, wait! Oh, mooie-mooie, I love you.
Are you brainless? You almost got us killed!
I spake.
The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta here!
No no! Mesa stay Mesa yous humble servaunt.
That wont be necessary.
Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa culled Jaja Binkss.
Stay down!
What's this?
A local. Let's get out of here before more droids show up.
"More? ""More"" did you spake? Ex-squeeze-me, but de mostest safest place would be Gunga City."
A city! Can you take us there?
Ahhh, will on second taut no, not willy.
No?!
Iss embarrissing, boot My afrai my've bean banished. My forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my goen back dare.
You hear that? That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading this way
When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little pieces, then blast us into oblivion!
Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!
Much farther?
Wesa goen underwater, okeyday? My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't expict a wern welcome.
Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.
Yousa follow me now, okeyday?
Yousa follow me now, okeyday?
Yousa follow me now, okeyday?
Hey, yousa. Stopa dare.
Heyo-dales, Cap'n Tarpals. Mesa back.
Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big dudu this time.
How wude.
Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new weesong!
That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them.
Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big.
After those droids take control of the surface, they will come here and take control of you.
No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of uss-en.
You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to one of you will affect the other. You must understand this.
Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no care-n about da Naboo.
Then speed us on our way.
Wesa gonna speed yousaway.
We need a transport.
Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen through da core. Now go.
Thank you for your help. We go in peace.
Master, whats a bongo?
A transport, I hope.
Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!
We are short of time, Master.
We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This Gungan my be of help.
What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here?
Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished.
"I saved his life. He owes me what you call a ""life-debt."" Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now."
Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?
Begone wit him!
Count me outta dis one. Better dead here than dead in da core. Yee gods! What mesa sayin?
DDis is nutsen. Oh, gooberfish!
Why were you banished, Jar Jar?
Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe mesa ooooh aaaa clumsy.
They banished you because you're clumsy?
Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes yud-say boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber den banished.
There's always a bigger fish.
Mesa tink we goen back now.
The invasion is on schedule, My Lord.
I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to accept your control of the system.
The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her.
Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling her will not be difficult.
Thank you, My Lord.
You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi?
No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.
Where wesa goin?
Don't worry. The Force will guide us.
Oh, maxi big, da Force. Well, dat smells stinkowiff.
we're losing power.
Oh no! Wesa dyin' here.
Just relax. We're not in trouble yet.
What yet? Monstairs out dare! Leak'n in here, all'n sink'n, and nooooo power! You nutsen! WHEN YOUSA TINK WESA IN TROUBLE?!?
Power's back.
Monstairs back!
Relax.
You overdid it.
Head for that outcropping.
Wesa dead yet? Oie Boie!
Viceroy, we have captured the queen.
Ah, victory!
Wesa dude it!
how will you explain this invasion to the Senate?
The Naboo and the Federation will forge a treaty that will legitimize our occupation here. I've been assured it will be ratified by the Senate.
I will not co-operate.
Now, now, your Highness. You are not going to like what we have in store for your people. In time, their suffering will persuade you to see our point of view. Commander. Process them.
Yes, sir! Take them to Camp Four.
We should leave the street, Your Highness.
Get their weapons.
Yousa guys bombad!
Your Highness, we are the Ambassadors, for the Supreme Chancellor.

The negotiations never took place. Your Highness, we must make contact with the republic.
They've knocked out all our communications.
Do you have transports?
In the main hanger. This way.
There are too many of them.
That won't be a problem. Your Highness, under the circumstances, I suggest you come to Coruscant with us.
Thank you, Ambassador, but my place is here with my people.
They will kill you if you stay.

They need her to sign a treaty to make this invasion of theirs legal. They can't afford to kill her.
The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you.
Our only hope is for the Senate to side with us Senator Palpatine will need your help.
Either choice presents a great risk to all of us
We are brave, Your Highness.
If you are to leave, Your Highness, it must be now.
Then, I will plead our case before the Senate. Be careful, Governor.
We need to free those pilots.
Ill deal with that.
Halt.
I'm Ambassador for the Supreme Chancellor, and I'm taking those people to Coruscant.
Where are you taking them?
To Coruscant.
Coruscant? U h, that doesn't compute. Uh, wait. U h, you're under arrest.
Come on. Move!
GO!
our communications are still jammed.
Now stay here, and keep out of trouble.
Ello, boyos.
There's the blockade.
The shield generator's been hit!
We're losing droids fast.
If we can't get the shield generator fixed, we'll be sitting ducks.
The shields are gone.
Powers back! That little droid did it. He bypassed the main power drive. Deflector shield up, at maximum.
There's not enough power to get us to Coruscant the hyperdrive is leaking.
We'll have to land somewhere to refuel and repair the ship.
Here, Master. Tatooine It's small, out of the way, poor The Trade Federation has no presence there.
How can you be sure?
It's controlled by the Hutts
You can't take Her Royal Highness there! The Hutts are gangsters If they discovered her
It would be no different than if we landed on a system controlled by the Federation except the Hutts aren't looking for her, which gives us an advantage.
And Queen Amidala, has she signed the treaty?
She has disappeared, My Lord. One Naboo cruiser got pat the blockade.
Viceroy, find her! I want that treaty signed.
My Lord, it's impossible to locate the ship. It's out of our range.
not for a Sith. Viceroy, this is my apprentice. Lord Maul. He will find your lost ship.
This is getting out of hand now there are two of them.
We should not have made this bargain.
An extremely well put together little droid. Without a doubt, it saved the ship, as well as our lives.
It is to be commended what is its number?
R2-D2, Your Highness.
Thank you, ARTOO Detoo. You have proven to be very loyal Padme
Beeps
Clean this droid up the best you can. It deserves our gratitude.
Continue, Captain.
Yor Highness, we are heading for a remote planet called Tatooine. It is a system far beyond the reach of the Trade Federation.
I do not agree with the Jedi on this.
You must trust my judgement, Your Highness.
Hidoe! Sorry, nomeanen to scare yousa.
beeps
Mesa Ja Ja Binksss
I'm Padme, I attend Her Highness, You're a Gungan, aren't you? How did you end up here with us?
Me no know mesa day starten pitty okeyday witda brisky morning munchen. Den boom getten berry skeered, un grabbed dat Jedi, and before mesa knowen it pow! Mesa here. Getten berry berry skeered.
beeps
That's it. Tatooine.
There's a settlement a spaceport, looks like.
Land near the outskirts. We don't want to attract any attention.
The Hyperdrive generator is gone. We will need a new one.
That'll complicate things. Be wary. I sense a disturbance in the Force.
I fell it also, Master.
Don't let them send any transmissions.
Dis sun doen murder tada skin.
Wait ! Her Highness commands you to take her handmaiden with you. She wishes for her to observe the local
No more commands from Her Highness today, Captain. This spaceport is not going to be pleasant
The Queen wishes it. She is curious about this planet.
This is not a good idea. Stay close to me.
beeps
moisture farms for the most part, but also a few indigenous tribes and scavengers. The few spaceports like this one are havens for those who do not wish to be found
like us.
Dissen berry, berry bad. Icky, icky goo!
We'll try one of the smaller dealers.
Good day to you.
I need parts for a J-type 327 Nubian.
Ah yes, ah yes. Nubian. We have lots of that. What kinda junk? Peedenkel! Naba dee unko
My droid here has a readout of what I need.
Coona tee-tocky malia?
Mel tassa cho-passa
Chut-Chut! Ganda doe wallya. Me dwana no bata. Soooo, let me take- a thee out back. Ni you'll find what you need.
Don't touch anything.
Are you an angel?
What?
An angel. I've heard the deep space pilots talk about them. They live on the Moons of Iego I thimk. They are the most beautiful creatures in the universe. They are good and kind, and so pretty they make even the most hardened spice pirate cry.
You're a funny little boy. How do you know so much?
I listen to all the traders and star pilots who come through here. I'm a pilot, you know, and someday I'm gonna fly away from this place.
You're a pilot?
All mylife.
How long have you been here?
Since I was very little, three, I think. My Mom and I were sold to Gardulla the Hutt, but she lost us, betting on the Podraces, to Watto, who's a lot better master than Gardulla, I think.
You're a slave?
I am a person! My name is Anakin.
I'm sorry. I don't fully understand. This is a strange world to me.
Hit the nose!
Here it is a T-14 hyperdrive generator! Thee in luck, I'm the only one hereabouts who has one but thee might as well buy a new ship. It would be cheaper, I think Sying of which, how's thee going to pay for all this?
I have 20,000 Republic dataries.
Republic credits?!? Republic credits are no good out here. I need something more real
I don't have anything else. But credits will do fine.
No they won'ta.
Credits will do fine.
No, they won'ta. What you think you're some kinda Jedi, waving your hand around like that? I'm a Toydarian. Mind tricks don'ta work on me-only money. No money, no parts! No deal! And no one else has a T-14 hyperdrive, I promise you that.
wouldn't have lasted long if I weren't so good at fixing things. I'm making my own droid
We're leaving.
I'm glad I met you, ah
I'm glad I met you too.
Ootmians! Tinka me chasa hopoe ma booty na nolia.
La lova num botaffa.
Fweepa niaga. Tolpa da bunky dunko.
You're sure there isn't anything of value left on board?
A few containers of supplies, the Queen's wardrobe, maybe. Not enough for you to barter with. Not in the ammounts you're talking about.
All right. Another solution will present itself. I'll check back.
Noah gain da beings hereabouts cawazy. Wesa be robbed un crunched.
Not likely. We have nothing of value, that's our problem.
beeps
Hey, that will be seven truguts!
Chuba!
Who, mesa?
Ni chuba na?
Why mesa always da one?
Chess ko, Sebulba Coo wolpa tooney rana.
Tooney rana nu pratta dunko, shag.
Oh da Hutt cha porko ootman geesa me teesa rodda co pana pee choppa chawa.
Neek me chowa, wermo, mo killee ma klounkee Una noto wo shag, me wompity du pom pom.
Eh, chee bana do mullee ra.
Hi!
Hi there.
Your buddy here was about to be turned into orange goo. He picked a fight with a Dug. An especially dangerous Dug called Sebulba.
Nosir, nosir. Mesa hate crunchen. Dat's da last ting mesa wanten.
Nevertheless, the boy is right you were heading for trouble. Thank you, my young friend.
Mesa doen nutten!
This storm's going to slow them down.
It looks pretty bad. We'd better seal the ship.
Yes?
Receiving a message from home.
We'll be right there.
Here, you'll like these pallies. Here.
Thank you.
My bones are aching. Storm's coming up, Ani. You better get home quick.
Do you have shelter?
We'll hed back to our ship.
Is it far?
On the outskirts.
You'll never reach the outskirts in time sandstorms are very, very dangerous. Come with me. Hurry!
beeps
Mom! Mom! I'm home.
Dissen cozy.
These are my friends, Mom.
I'm Qui-Gon Jinn. Your son was kind enough to offer us shelter.
I'm building a droid. You wanna see? Come on. I'll show you 3PO.
beeps
Isn't he great?! He's not finished yet.
He's wonderful!
beeps
You reall like him? He's a protocol droid to help Mom. Watch!
How do you do, I am See-Threepio, Human Cyborg Relations. How might I serve you?
He's perfect.
When the storm is over, you can see my racer. I'm building a Podracer!
beeps
I'm not sure this floor is entirely stable.
Hello. I don't believe we have been introduced.
beeps
R2-D2. A pleasure to meet you. I am C-3PO, human cyborg relations.
beeps
"I beg your pardon, but what do you mean, ""naked""?"
beeps
My parts are showing? Oh, my goodness.
The death toll is catastrophic. We must bow to their wishes. You must contact me.
It's a trick. Send no reply Send no transmission of any kind.
It sounds like bait to establish a connection trace.
What if it is true and the people are dying?
Either way, we're running out of time.
Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct I will find them quickly, Master.
Move against the Jedi first you will then have no difficulty taking the Queen back to Naboo, where she will sign the treaty.
At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will have revenge.
You have been well trained, my young apprentice, they will be no match for you.
All slaves have transmitters placed inside their bodies somewhere.
I've been working on a scanner to try and locate them, but no luck.
Any attempt to escape
and they blow you up poof!
How wude.
I can't believe there is still slavery in the galaxy. The Republic's anti-slavery laws
The Republic doesn't exist out here we must survive on our own.
Have you ever seen a Podrace?
They have Podracing on Malastare. Very fast, very dangerous.
I'm the only human who can do it.
You must have Jedi reflexes if you race Pods.
Don't do that again.
Well, ahhh you're a Jedi Knight, aren't you?
What makes you think that?
I saw your laser sword. Only Jedi carry that kind of weapon.
Perhaps I killed a Jedi and stole it from him.
I don't think so No one can kill a Jedi Knight.
I wish that were so
I had a dream I was a Jedi. I came back here and free all the slaves have you come to free us?
No, I'm afraid not
I think you have why else would you be here?
I can see there's no fooling you You mustn't let anyone know about us we're on our way to Coruscant, the central system in the Republic, on a very important mission, and it must be kept secret.
Coruscant wow how did you end up here in the outer rim?
Our ship was damaged, and we're stranded here until we can repair it.
I can help! I can fix anything!
I believe you can, but our first job is to aquire the parts we need
Wit no-nutten mula to trade.
These junk dealers must have a weakness of some kind.
Gambling. Everything here revolves around betting on those awful races.
Podracing Greed can be a powerful ally if it's used properly.
I've built a racer! It's the fastest ever There's a big race tomorrow, on Boonta Eve. You could enter my pod. It's all but finished
Anakin, settle down. Watto won't let you
Watto doesn't know I've built it.
You could make him think it's your's, and you could get him to let me pilot it for you.
I don't want you to race, Annie It's awful. I die every time Watto makes you do it.
But Mom, I love it and they need help they're in trouble. The prize money would more than pay for the parts they need.
Anakin
Your mother's right. Is there anyone friendly to the Republic who might be able to help us?
No
Mom, you say the biggest problem in this universe is nobody helps each other.
I'm sure Qui-Gon doesn't want to put your son in danger. We will find another way
No, Annie's right, there is no other way I may not like it, but he can help you he was meant to help you.
Is that a yes? That is a yes!
Are you sure about this? Trusting our fate to a boy we hardly know. The Queen will not approve.
The Queen does not need to know.
Well, I don't approve.
The boy tells me you wanta sponser hi insa race. You can't afford parts. How can you do this? Not on Republic credits, I think.
My ship will be the entry fee.
Not bad not bad a Nubian.
It's in good order, except for the parts we need.
but what would the boy ride? He smashed up my Pod in the last race. It will take some time to fix it.
Ahhhh it wasn't my fault really Sebulba flashed me with his vent ports. I actually saved the Pod mostly.
That you did. The boy is good, no doubts there.
"I have acquired a Pod in a game of chance. ""The fastest ever built."""
"I hope you didn't kill anyone I know for it. So, you supply the Pod and the entry fee
Fifty-fifty!?! If it's going to be fifty-fifty, I suggest you front the cash for the entry. If we win, you keep all the winnings, minus the cost of the parts I need If we lose, you keep my ship.
Either way, you win.
Deal!
Yo bana pee ho-tah, meedee ya.
What if this plan fails, Master? We could be stuck here for a long time.
A ship without a power supply will not get us anywhere, and there is something about this boy
You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of reward.
He knows nothing of greed. He has
He has special powers.
Yes
He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait.
He deserves better than a slave's life.
Had he been born in the Republic, we would have identified him early. The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who was his father?
There was no father, that I know of I carried him, I gave him birth I can't explain what happened. Can you help him?
I don't know. I didn't actually come here to free slaves.
Wow, a real Astro Droid how'd you get so lucky?
This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race tomorrow!
What? With this?
Annie, Jesko na joka.
You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to run.
Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be bug squash.
Hey! Jar Jar! Stay away from those energy binders. If your hand gets caught in that beam, it will go numb for hours.
Ouch-dats muy bigo Oucho.
You know, I find that Jar Jar creature to be a little odd.
beeps
But you don't even know if this thing will run.
It will.
I think it's time we found out. Use this power charge.
Come on, Kitster. Let's move away.
My mouth. Ani, I'm stuck. My tongue is fat.
You're quite right. He's very odd indeed.
beeps
Thank you.
Go.
It's working! It's working!
Sit still, Annie. Let me clean this cut.
There are so many! Do they all have a system of planets?
Most of them.
Has anyone been to them all?
Not likely.
I want to be the first one to see them all Ouch!
Annie, bedtime!
Annie! I'm not going to tell you again!
What are you doing?
Checking your blood for infections. Go on, you have a big day tomorrow. Goodnight.
Obi-Wan
Yes, Master.
Make an analysis of this blood sample I'm sending you.
Wait a minute
I need a midi-chlorian count.
The reading is off the chart. Over 20,000. Even Master Yoda doesn't have a midi-chlorian count that high.
No Jedi has.
What does it mean?
I'm not sure.
I want to see your spaceship the moment the race is over.
Patienc, my blue friend. You'll have your winnings before the suns set, and we'll be far away from here.
Not if your ship belongs to me, I think I warn you, no funny business.
You don't think Anakin will win?
Don't get me wrongo. I have great faith in the boy. He's a credit to your race, but Sebulba there is going to win, I think.
Why do you think that?
He always wins. I'm betting heavily on Sebulba.
I'll take that bet.
What?! What do you mean?
I'll wager my new racing pod against say the boy and his mother.
A Pod for slaves. I don't think so well, poerhaps. Just one the mother, maybe the boy isn't for sale.
The boy is small, he can't be worth much.
For the fastest Pod ever built?!
Both, or no bet.
No Pod's worth two slaves not by a long shot one slave or nothing.
The boy, then
We'll let fate decide. Blue it's the boy, red his mother. You won the small toss, outlander, but you won't win the race, so it makes little difference.
Bonapa keesa pateeso, o wanna meetee chobodd.
What did he mean by that?
I'll tell you later.
beeps
Oh my! Space travel sounds rather perilous.
beeps
I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those dreadful starships!
This is so wizard! I'm sure you'll do it this time, Annie.
Do what?
Finish the race, of course!
You've never won a race?
Well not exactly
Not even finished?!
but Kitster's right, I will this time.
Of course you will.
Toogi! Toogie! Toong mee cha kulkah du Boonta magi! tah oos azalus ooval Poddraces.
That's absolutly right. And a big turnout here, from all corners of the Outer Rim territories. I see the contestants are making their way out onto the starting grid.
La Yma beestoo
I see Ben Quadinaros from the Tund system.
eh Gasgano doowa newpa Ord Petrovia!
Two time winner, Boles Roor
Poo tula moosta, woe grane champio Sebulba du Pixelito! Splastyleeya bookie ookie!
And a late entry, Anakin Skywalker, a local boy.
Wampa peedunkee unko
I see the flaggers are moving onto the track.
Be safe.
I will, Mom. I promise.
Bazda wahota, shag. Dobiella Nok. Yoka to Bantha poodoo.
Cha skrundee da pat, sleemo.
Ka bazza kundee hodrudda!
Are you all set, Annie?
Yes.
Remember,concentrate on the moment. Feel. Don't think. Trust your instincts.
Okay.
May the Force be with you.
O grandio lust, Jabba Du Hutt, amu intoe tah parena.
Chowbaso! Tam ka chee Boonta rulee ya, kee madda hodrudda du wundee.
Ya pawa culka doe rundee!
Hey, it looks like they're clearing the grid.
Is he nervous?
He's fine.
You Jedi are far too reckless. The Queen
The Queen trusts my judgment, young handmaiden. You should too.
You assume too much.
Start your engines.
An dare ovv!
Oh wait. Little Skywalker has stalled.
And there goes Skywalker He'll be hard pressed to catch up with the leaders today.
Come on, Ani!
Careful, Ani. Careful, Ani!
Looks like a few Tusken Riaders have campe out on the canyon dune turn.
There goes Quadinaros' power couplings.
Sebulba! Ka pa me cheespa wata!
Where is Mister Anakin ?
beeps
Here he comes!
beeps
He has to complete two more circuits? Oh dear!
It looks like Skywalker is moving up through the field. He's in
Steeth pa nagoola!
Ody Mandrell! Coona wa wunda dunko!
Droids!
At the start of the third and final lap, Sebulba is in the lead, closely followed by Skywalker
Skywalker is forced onto the service ramp!
Oh noah!
Amazing a controlled thrust and he's back on course! What a move!
He's catching Sebulba.
Inkabunga.
That little human being is out of his mind.
Punda tah punda!
They're side by side!
Bongo du bongu!
It's Skywalker! The crowd are going nuts! Oh Ah Oh Ah
beeps
I can't believe it.
Yay, Ani!
Mom, I did it! Yay!
Good going, Ani!
We owe you everything.
It's so wonderful, Annie. You have brought hope to those who have none. I'm so very proud of you
Ah, gee enough of this
You! You swindled me! You knew the boy was going to win! Somehow you knew it! I lost everything.
Whenever you gamble, my friend, eventually you'll lose. Bring the parts to the main hanger. I'll come by your shop later so you can release the boy.
You can't have him! It wasn't a fair bet!
Would you like to discuss it with the Hutts I'm sure they can settle this.
No, no! I want no more of your tricks! Take him!
I'm going back some unfinished business. I won't be long.
Why do I sense we've picked up another pathetic life form?
It's the boy who's responsible for getting us these parts. Start getting this hyperdrive generator installed.
Yes, Master. That shouldn't take long.
These are yours. We sold the Pod.
Yes!
Mom, we sold the pod! Look at all the money we have!
Oh, my goodness, That's wonderful.
And Anakin has been freed.
What?!?
You're no longer a slave.
Did you hear that, Mom?
You are free.
Will you take him with you? Is he to become a Jedi?
Our meeting was not a coincidence. Nothing happens by accident. You are strong with the Force, but you may not be accepted by the Coucil.
A Jedi! Mighty blasters, you mean I get to go with you in your starship and everything?!
Anakin, training to be a Jedi will not be a easy challenge. And if you succeed, it will be a hard life.
But it's what I want. What I've always dreamed about.
Can I go, Mom?!
This path has been placed for you, Annie. The choice to take it is yours alone.
I want to go.
Then, pack your things. We haven't much time.
Yipee!
What about Mom? Is she free too? You're coming, aren't you, Mom
I tried to free your mother, Annie, but Watto wouldn't have it.
You're coming with us, aren't you, Mom?
Son, my place is here. My future is here. It is time for you to let go to let go of me. I cannot go with you.
I want to stay with you. I don't want things to change.
You can't stop change any more than you can stop the suns from setting. I love you. Now hurry.
Thank you.
I will watch after him. You have my word. Will you be all right?
Yeah.
Well, Threepio, I'm free and I'm going away in a starship
Master, Annie, you are my maker, and I wish you well. Although I'd like it better if I were a little less naked.
I'm sorry I wasn't able to finish you, Threepio give you coverings and all I'm going to miss working on you. You've been a great pal. I'll make sure Mom doesn't sell you or anything.
Sell me?!?
Bye.
Oh, my.
I can't do it, Mom. I just can't.
Annie
Will I ever see you again?
What does your heart tell you?
I hope so yes I guess.
Then we will see each other again.
I will become a Jedi and I will come back and free you, Mom I promise.
No matter where you are, my love will be with you. Now be brave, and don't look back don't look back.
Master Qui-Gon,sir, wait!
Anakin, drop!
Annie, get to the ship! Take off! Go! Go!
Qui-Gon's in trouble.
Take off now! Over there. Fly low.
Are you all right?
I think so.
What was it?
I don't know but he was well trained in the Jedi arts. My guess is he was after the Queen
What are we gonna do about it?
We will be patient. Anakin Skywalker, meet Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Pleased to meet you. Wow! You're a Jedi too? Pleased to meet you.
Your Queen is lost, your people are starving, and you, Governor, are going to die, much sooner than your people, I'm afraid.
This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people have decided
Take him away.
My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these rumored underwater villages. They will not stay hidden for long.
The death toll is catastrophic. We must bow to their wishes. You must contact me.
Are you all right?
It's very cold.
You're from a warm planet, Annie. Too warm for my taste. Space is cold.
You seem sad.
The Queen is worried. Her people are suffering dying. She must convince the Senate to intervene, or I'm not sure what will happen.
I'm I'm not sure what's going to happen to me. I dunno if I'll ever see you again. I made this for you. Sou you'd remember me. I carved it out of a japor snippet It will bring you good fortune.
It's beautiful, but I don't need this to remember you. Many things will change when we reach the capital, Annie. My caring for you will always remain.
I care for you too. Only I miss
You miss your mother.
Coruscant the capital of the Republic the entire planet is one big city. There's Chancellor Valorum's shuttle. And look over there. Senator Palpatine is waiting for us.
It is a great gift to see you alive, Your Majesty. With the communications breakdown, we've been very concerned. I'm anxious to hear your report on the situation. May I present Supreme Chancellor Valorum.
Welcome, Your Highness. It is an honor to finally meet you in person.
Thank you, Supreme Chancellor.
I must relay to you how distressed everyone is over the currant situation. I've called for a special session of the Senate to hear your position.
I am grateful for your concern, Chancellor.
There is a question of precedure, but I feel confident we can overcome it
I must speak with the Jei Council immediately, Your Honor. The situation has become more complicated.
Ani, come on.
Da queen's a bein grossly nice, mesa tinks. Pitty hot.
the Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of greedy, squabbling delegates who are only looking out for themselves and their home sytems. There is no interest in the common good no civility, only politics its disgusting. I must be frank, Your Majesty, there is little chance the Senate will act on the invasion.
Chancellor Valorum seems to think there is hope.
If I may say so, Your Majesty, the Chancellor has little real power he is mired down by baseless accusations of corruption. A manufactured scandal surrounds him. The bureaucrats are in charge now.
What options do we have?
Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger Supreme Chancellor. One who will take control of the bureaucrats, enforces the laws, and give us justice. You could call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum.
He has been our strongest supporter.
Our only other choice would to be to submit a plea to the courts
There's no time for that. The courts take even longer to decide things than the Senate. Our people are dying, Senator more and more each day. We must do something quickly to stop the Federation.
To be realistic, Your Highness, I'd say we're going to have to accept Federation control for the time being.
There is something I cannot do.
He was trained in the Jedi arts. My only conclusion can be that it was a Sith Lord.
Impossible! The Sith have been extinct for a millenium.
I do not believe they could have returned without us knowing.
Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we must.
I sense he will reveal himself again.
We will use all our resources here to unravel this mystery and discover the identity of your attacker May the Force be with you.
Master Qui-Gon more to say have you?
With your permission, my Master. I have encountered a vergence in the Force.
A vergence, you say?
Located around a person?
A boy his cells have the highest concentration of midi-chlorians I have seen in a life form. It is possible he was conceived by the midi-chlorians.
You're referring to the prophesy of the one who will bring balance to the Force you believe it's this boy?
I don't pressume
But you do! Rrevealed your opinion is.
I request the boy be tested.
Trained as a Jedi, you request for him?
Finding him was the will of the Force I have no doubt of that.
Bring him before us, then.
The boy is here to see Padme.
Send him in.
I'm sorry, Annie. Padme is not here right now.
Who is it?
Anakin Skywalker, to see Padme, Your Highness.
I've sent Padme on an errand.
I'm going to the Jedi temple to start my training, I hope. I may not see her again and I just wanted to say goodbye.
We will tell her for you. We're sure her heart goes with you.
Thank you, Your Highness. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.
If the Federation moves to defer the motion Your Majesty, Ibeg of you to ask for a resolution to end this congressional session.
I wish I had your confidence in this, Senator.
You must force a new election for Supreme Chancellor I promise you there are many who will support us it is our best chance Your Majesty, our only, chance.
You truely believe Chancellor Valorum will not bring our motion to a vote?
He is distracted he is afraid. He will be of no help.
The Chair recognizes the Senator from the sovereign system of Naboo.
Supreme Chancellor, delegates of the Senate. A tragedy has occured on our peaceful system of Naboo. We have become caugt in a dispute you're all well aware of, which began right here with the taxation of trade routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppresion of the Trade Federation.
This is outrageous! I object to the Senator's statements!
The Chair does not recognize the Senator from the Trade Federation at this time. Please return to your station.
To state our allegations, I present Queen Amidala, the recently elected ruler of Naboo, to speak on our behalf.
Honorable representatives of the Republic, distinguished delegates, and Your Honor Supreme Chancellor Valorum, I come to you under the gravest of circumstances. The Naboo system has been invaded by force. Invaded against all the laws of the Republic by the Droid Armies of the Trade
I object! There is no proof. This is incredible. We recommend a commision be sent to Naboo to assertain the truth.
The Congress of Malastare concurs with the honorable delegate from the Trade Federation. A commision must be appointed that is the law.
The point
Enter the bureaucrats, the true rulers of the Republic, and on the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add. This is where Chancellor Valorum's strength will dissapear.
The point is conceded Section 523A take precedence here. Queen Amidala of the Naboo, will you defer your motion to allow a commission to explore the validity of your accusations?
"I will not defer I have come before you to resolve this attack on our sovereignty now. I was not elected to watch my people suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee. If this body is not capable of action, I suggest new leadership is needed. I move for a ""vote of no confidence"" in Chancellor Valorum's leadership."
Order! We shall have order
You see, Your Majaesty, the tide is with us Valorum will be voted out, I assure you, and they will elect in a new Chancellor, a strong Chancellor, one who will not let our tragedy continue
The boy will not pass the Council's tests, Master, and you know it. He is far too old.
Anakin will become A Jedi I promise you.
Don't defy the Council, Master not again.
I will do what I must.
Master, you could be sitting on the Council by now if you would just follow the code. They will not go along with you this time.
You still have much to learn, my young apprentice.
A ship a cup a speeder.
Good, good, young one. How feel you?
Cold, sir.
Afraid are you?
No, sir.
See through you, we can.
Be mindful of your feelings
Your thoughts dwell on your mother.
I miss her.
Afraid to lose her I think.
What's that got to do with anything?
Eveything. Fear is the path to the dark side fear leads to anger anger leads to hate hate leads to suffering. I sense much fear in you.
Yousa tinken yousa people ganna die?
I don't know.
Gungans ganna get pasted too, eh?
I hope not.
Gungans do die'n without a fight wesa warriors. Wesa gotta grand army. Dat why you no liken us, metinks.
Your Highness, Senator Palpatine has been nominated to succeed Valorum as Supreme Chancellor.
A surprise, to be sure, but a welcome one. I promise, Your Majesty, if I am elected, I will bring democracy back to the Republic. I will put an end to corruption.
Who else can be nominated?
Bail Antilles of Alderaan and Ainlee Teem of Malastare.
"I feel confident our ""situation"" will create a strong sympaphy vote for us I will be Chancellor, I promise you."
I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, Senator, there will be nothing left of our cities, our people, our way of life
"I understand your concern, Your Majesty
With the Senate in transition, there is nothing more I can do here Senator, this is your arena. I feel I must return to mine. I have decided to go back to Naboo.
Go back! But, Your Majesty, be realistic! You would be in danger. They will force you to sign the treaty.
I will sign no treaty, Senator. My fate will be no different from that of our people. Captain!
Yes, Your Highness?
Ready my ship!
Please, Your Majesty, stay here where it's safe.
No place is safe, if the Senate doesn't condemn this invasion. It is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions as a democracy. If you win the election, Senator, I know you will do everything possible to stop the Federation. I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to the Senate.
The Force is strong with him.
He's to be trained, then.
No. He will not be trained.
No?!
He is too old. There is already too much anger in him.
He is the chosen one you must see it.
Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth.
I will trin him, then. I take Anakin as my Padawan learner.
An apprentice, you have, Qui-Gon. Impossible, to take on a second.
We forbid it.
Obi-Wan is ready
Iam ready to face the trials.
Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready?
Headstrong and he has much to learn about the living Force, but he is capabe. There is little more he will learn from me.
Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later.
Now is not the time for this. The senate is voting for a new supreme chancellor and Queen Amidala is returning home which puts pressure on the Federation and could widen the confrontation.
And draw out the queen's attacker.
Go with the queen to Naboo and discover the identity of this dark warrior. This is the clue we need to unravel the mystery of the Sith.
May the Force be with you.
It is not disrespect, Master, it is the truth.
From your point of view
The boy is dangerous they all sense it. Why can't you?
His fate is uncertain, not dangerous. The Council will decide Anakin's future that should be enough for you. Now get on board!
beeps
Master Qui-Gon, sir, I do not wish to be a problem.
You won't be, Annie I'm not allowed to train you, so I want you to watch me and be mindful always remember, your focus determines your reality. Stay close to me and you will be safe.
Master, sir I heard Yoda talking about midi-chlorians.I've been wondering. What are midi-chlorians?
Midi-chlorians are a microcopic lifeform that reside within all living cells and communicates with the Force.
They live inside of me?
In your cells. We are symbionts with the midi-chlorians.
Symbionts?
Life forms living together for mutual advantage. Without the midi-chlorians, life could not exist, and we would have no knowledge of the Force. They continually speak to you, telling you the will of the Force. When you learn to quiet your mind, you will hear them speaking to you.
I don't understand.
With time and training, Annie you will.
Your Highness, it is our pleasure to continue to serve and protect you.
I welcome your help. Senator Palpatine fears the Federation means to destroy me.
I promise you, I will not let that happen.
Wesa goen home!
Come on, R2.
beeps
Viceroy, is the planet secure?
Yes, my Lord, we have taken over the last pockets of primitive life forms. We are in complete control of the planet now.
Good. I will see to it that in the Senate, things stay as they are. I am sending Darth Maul to join you. He will deal with the Jedi.
Yes, my Lord.
A Sith lord here with us?!

And those control the pitch?
You catch on pretty quick.
The moment we land the Federation will arrest you, and force you to sign the treaty.
I agree I'm not sure what you hope to accomplish by this.
I'm going to take back what's ours.
There are only twelve of us, Your Highness we have no army.
I cannot fight a war for you, Your Highness, only protect you.
Jar Jar Binks!
Mesa, Your Highness?
Yes. I need your help.
I have one battleship on my scope.
A droid control ship.
They've probably spotted us.
We haven't much time.
Jar Jar is on his way to the Gungan city, Master.
Good.
Do you think the Queen's idea will work?
The Gungans will not easily be swayed, and we cannot use our power to help her.
I'm I'm sorry for my behavior, Master. It is not my place to disagree with you about the boy. I am grateful you think I am ready for the trials.
You have been a good apprentice. You are much wiser than Iam, Obi-Wan. I foresee you will become a great Jedi Knight.
Dare-sa nobody dare. All gone. Some kinda fight, I tink. Sorry, no Gungas no Gungas.
Do you think they have been taken to camps?
More likely they were wiped out.
No mesa no tink so. Gungan hiden. When in trouble, go to sacred place. Mackineeks no find them dare.
Do you know where they are?
Heyo dadee Big Boss Nass, Your Honor.
Jar Jar. Who's da uss-en others?
I am Queen Amidala of the Naboo I come before you in peace.
Naboo biggen. Yousa bringen da Mackineeks Dya busten uss-enomm. Yousa all bombad. Yousa all die'n, mesa tink.
We have searched you out because we wish to form an alliance.
Your Honor
Whosa dis?
I am Queen Amidala. This is my decoy my protection my loyal bodyguard. I am sorry for my deception, but under the circumstances it has become necessary to protect myself. Although we do not always agree, Your Honor, our two great societies have always lived in peace until now. The Trade Federation has destroyed all that we have worked so hard to build. You are in hiding, my people are in camps. If we do not act quickly, all will be lost forever I ask you to help us no, I beg you to help us. We are your humble servants our fate is in your hands.
Yousa no tinken yousa greater den da Gungans Mesa like dis. Maybe wesa bein friends.
we've sent out patrols. We've already located their starship in the swamp It won't be long, My Lord.
This is an unexpected move for her. It's too aggresive Lord Maul, be mindful.
Be patient Let them make the first move.
Yes, my Master.
Daza comen!
All right. They're here!
Yousa doen grand. Jar Jar bringen da Naboo together.
Oh, no, no, no
So, wesa maken yousa Bombad General.
General?! Oh, no
What is the situation?
Almost everyone's in camps. A few hundred police and guards have formed an underground movement. I brought as many of the keaders as I could. The Federation Army's also much larger than we thought, and much stronger. Your Highness, this is a battle I do not think we can win.
The battle is a diversion. The Gungans must draw the Droid Army away from the cities. We can enter the city using the secret passages on the waterfall side. Once we get to the main entrance, Captain Panaka will create a diversion, so that we can enter the palace and capture the Viceroy. Without the Viceroy, they will be lost and confused. What do you think, Master Jedi?
The Viceroy will be well guarded.
The difficulty's getting into the throne room. Once we're inside, we shouldn't have a problem.
There is a possibility with this diversion many Gungans will be killed.
Wesa ready to do are-sa part.
We have a plan which should immobilize the Droid Army. We will send what pilots we have to knock out the Droid control ship which is orbiting the planet. If we can get past their rayshields, we can sever communication and their droids will be helpless.
A well-conceived plan. However, there's great risk. The weapons on your fighters may not penetrate the shields on the control ship.
And there's an even bigger danger. If the Vicroy escapes, Your Highness, he will return with another droid army.
That is why we must not fail to get to the Viceroy. Everything depends on it.
beeps
she is more foolish than I thought.
We are sending all available troops to meet this army of hers assembling near the swamp. It appears to be made up of primitives. We do not expect much resistance.
I have your approval to proceed then, My Lord.
Proceed. Wipe them put all of them.
Halt! Energize the shields.
Once we get inside, Annie, you find a safe placeto hide and stay there.
Sure.
And stay there!
I thought the battle was going to take place far from here this is too close!
Activate the droids
Yes, sir.
Get to your ships!
Ani, find cover.
whistles
Hey! Wait for me.
whistles
My guess is the Viceroy is in the throne room.
Red group! Blue group! Everybody, this way!
Hey, wait for me!
No, Annie, you stay there. Stay right where you are.
But, I
Stay in that cockpit.
We'll handle this.
beeps
We gotta do something, ARTOO.
beeps
Where's the trigger? Oops, wrong one Maybe this one
beeps
It's on automatic pilot. Try to override it.
beeps
Look, there they are ! There they are! That's where the autopilot is taking us.
We don't have time for this, Captain.
GO! Ascension guns!
Whoo, boy! This is tense!
beeps
: Oops! ARTOO, get us off Autopilot! It's gonna get us both killed.
beeps
Yes I've got control. You did it, ARTOO!
beeps
Go back!?! Qui-Gon told me to stay in this cockpit and that's what I'm gonna do. Now c'mon!
beeps
I'll try spinning, that's a good trick.
beeps
I know we're in trouble! Hang on! The way out of this mess is the way we got into it.
beeps
Which one? This one?
Throw down your weapons. They win this round.
beeps
We're hit!
beeps
I'm trying to stop! I'm trying to stop! Whoa!
beeps
Everything's overheated. All the lights are red.
beeps
Dissa bad, berry bombad.
Mesa hopen dissa working for da Queen.
Your little insurrection is at an end, Your Highness. Time for you to sign the treaty and end this pointless debate in the Senate.
I will not be signing any treaty, Viceroy, because you've lost!
After her! This one is a decoy!
Jam the doors.
Now, Viceroy, this is the end of your occupation here.
It is too late It's
No!
Obi-Wan promise promise me you'll train the boy
Yes, Master
He is the chosen one he will bring balance train him!
Yes! We have power. Shields up.
beeps
Let's get outta here.
beeps
Now, this is Podracing.
beeps
Sir, we're losing power There is some problem with the main reactor
Impossible! Nothing can get through our shield.
What's that? It's blowing up from the inside.
I don't know, we didn't hit it.
Look! One of ours! Outta the main hold!
Was'n they doing?
The control ship has been destroyed. Look!
They all broke-ed.
Now, Viceroy, you are going to have to go back to the Senate and explain all this.
I think you can kiss your Trade franchise goodbye.
We are indebted to you for your bravery, Obi-Wan Kenobi.
And you, young Skywalker. We will watch your career with great interest.
Congratulations on your election, Chancellor. It is so good to see you again.
It's good to be home. Your boldness has saved our people, Your Majesty. It is you who should be congratulated. Together we shall bring peace and prosperity to the Republic.
Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not.
Qui-Gon believed in him. I believe in Qui-Gon.
The Chosen One the boy may be. nevertheless, grave danger I fear in his training.
Master Yoda, I gave Qui-Gon my word. I will train Anakin. Without the approval of the Council if I must.
Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be.
What will happen to me now?
I am your Master now. You will become a Jedi, I promise.
There is no doubt. The mysterious warrior was a Sith.
Always two there are no more no less. A maste and an apprentice.
But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?
We made it. I guess I was wrong, there was no danger at all.
Cord...
... I'm sorry, m'lady... I'm... not sure I...
No!... No!... No!...
I should not have come back.
M'Lady, you are still in danger.
This vote is very important. You didyour duty and Cord did hers. Now come. (she doesn't respond) M'Lady, please!
Order! We shall have order! The motion for the Republic to commission an army takes precedent, and that is what we will vote on at this time.
...My esteemed colleagues, excuse me... I have just received some tragic and disturbing news. Senator Amidala of the Naboo system... Has been assassinated!
(continued) This grievous blow is especially personal to me. Before I became Chancellor, I served Amidala when she was Queen. She was a great leader who fought for justice, not only in this honourable assembly, but also on her home planet. She was so loved she could have been elected queen for life. She believed in public service, and she fervently believed in democracy. Her death is a great loss to us all. We will all mourn her as a relentless champion of freedom... and as a dear friend.
How many more Senators will die before this civil strife ends! We must confront these rebels now, and they need an army to do it.
Why weren't the Jedi able to stop this assassination? We are no longer safe, under their protection.
The Republic needs more security now! Before it comes to war.
Must I remind the Senator from Malastare that negotiations are continuing with the separatists. Peace is our objective here... not war.
My noble colleagues, I concur with the Supreme Chancellor. At all costs, we do not want war!
It is with great surprise and joy the chair recognises the Senator from Naboo, PADME Amidala.
Less than an hour ago, an assassination attempt was made against my life. One of my bodyguards and six others were ruthlessly and senselessly murdered. I was the target but, more importantly, I believe this security measure before you, was the target. I have led the opposition to build an army... but there is someone in this body who will stop at nothing to assure it's passage...
"(continuing) I warn you, if you vote to create this army, war will follow. I have experienced the misery of war first-hand
Wake up, Senators... you must wake up! If you offer the separatists violence, they can only show us violence in return! Many will lose their lives. All will lose their freedom. This decision could very well destroy the very foundation of our great Republic. I pray you do not let fear push you into a disastrous decision. Vote down this security measure, which is nothing less than a declaration of war! Does anyone here want that? I cannot believe they do.
My motion to defer the vote must be dealt with first. That is the rule of law.
Due to the lateness of the hour and the seriousness of this motion, we will take up these matters tomorrow. Until then, the Senate stands adjourned.
I don't know how much longer I can hold off the vote, my friends. More and more star systems are joining the separatists.
If they do break away -
No! I will not let that happen!
But if they do, you must realise there aren't enough Jedi to protect the Republic. We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
Master Yoda, do you think it will really come to war?
Worse than war, I fear... Much worse.
What?
What do you sense, Master?
Impossible to see ... The Dark Side clouds everything. But this I am sure of - (opens his eyes) Do their duty the Jedi will.
The loyalist committee has arrived, my Lord.
Send them in.
With you the force is strong... young Senator. To see you alive brings warm feeling to my heart.
Thank you, Master Yoda. Do you have any idea who was behind the attack?
Our intelligence points to disgruntled spice miners, on the moons of Naboo.
I don't wish to disagree but I think that Count Dooku was behind it.
You know, M'Lady, COUNT DOOKU was once a Jedi. He wouldn't assassinate anyone, it is not in his character.
He is a political idealist, not a murderer.
In dark times nothing is what it appears to be, but the fact remains Senator, in grave danger you are.
Count Dooku has always avoided any kind of conflict. It appears he has no desire to start a war. Why would he kill you? To what end?
I don't know, but everything in my being tells me he was behind it...
Master Jedi, may I suggest that the Senator be placed under the protection of your graces.
Do you think that is a wise use of manpower during these stressful times?
Chancellor, if I may comment, I do not believe the...
"...""situation is that serious."" No, but I do, Senator."
Chancellor, please! I don't want any more guards!
I realise all too well that additional security might be disruptive for you, but perhaps someone you are familiar with... an old friend like... Master Kenobi...
That's possible. He has just returned from a Border dispute on Ansion.
You must remember him, M'Lady... he watched over you during the blockade conflict.
This is not necessary, Chancellor.
Do it for me, M'Lady, please. I will rest easier. We had a big scare today. The thought of losing you is unbearable.
I will have Obi-Wan report to you immediately, M'Lady.
Too little about yourself you worry, Senator, and too much about politics. Be mindful of your danger, PADME. Accept our help.
I will not like this Republiv, that has stood for over a thousand years, be split in two
Obi! Obi! Obi! Mesa sooo smilen to see'en yousa. Wahoooooo!
It's Good to see you, too, Jar Jar.
Oops! Wheresa mesa manners? Excuse me, Master Obi-Wan. I completely forgot myself for a moment there. I have had to learn Diplodiaclect... speak it like a native now. Don't really see the point, actually, but members of the Senate seem to prefer it...
(continuing) ...and this, I take it, is your apprentice... Nooooooooo! Annie? Noooooooo! Little Bitty Annie? (Looks at Anakin) Nooooooo! Yousa so biggen! Yiyiyiyyi! Annie!! Mesa no believen.
Hi, Jar Jar.
Annie! Annie! Yiyiyiyiyiyiiii!
Lookie... lookie... Oops!... Oh, dear, I'm afraid I've forgotten myself again.
It's a great pleasure to see you again, M'Lady.
It has been far too long Master Kenobi. I'm so glad our paths have crossed again... but I must warn you that I think your presence here is unnecessary.
I'm sure the Jedi Council have their reasons.
Annie?? (stares) My goodness you've grown.
(trying to be smooth) So have you... grown more beautiful, I mean... and much shorter... for a Senator, I mean.
Oh Annie, you'll always be that little boy I knew on Tatooine.
Our presence will be invisible, M'Lady.
I am very grateful you are here, Master Kenobi. The situation is more dangerous than the Senator will admit.
I don't need more security, I need answers. I want to know who is trying to kill me.
(frowning) We're here to protect you Senator, not to start an investigation.
We will find out who is trying to kill you PADME, I promise you.
We are not going to exceed our mandate, my young Padawan learner.
I meant in the interest of protecting her, Master, of course.
We are not going through this exercise again, Anakin. You will pay attention to my lead.
Why?
What??!!
Why else do you think we were assigned to her, if not to find the killer? Protection is a job for local security... not Jedi. It's overkill, Master. Investigation is implied in our mandate.
We will do as the Council has instructed, and you will learn your place, young one.
Perhaps with merely your presence, the mysteries surrounding this threat will be revealed. Now if you will excuse me I will retire.
Well, I know I feel a lot better having you here. I'll have an officer on every floor and I'll be at the command centre downstairs.
Mesa busten wit happiness seein Yousa again, Annie. Deesa bad times, bombad times.
She didn't even recognize me, Jar Jar. I thought about her every day since we parted... and she's forgotten me completely.
Shesa happy. Happier den mesa see-en her in longo time.
Anakin, you're focusing on the Negative again. Be mindful of your thoughts. She was glad to see us. Now lets check the security here.
Yes, my master.
Why couldn't we see this attack on the Senator?
Masking the future, is this disturbance in the Force.
The propecy is coming true, the Dark Side is growing.
And only those who have turned to the Dark Side can sense the possibilities of the future. Only going through the Dark Side can we see.
It's been ten years, and the Sith still have no shown themselves. Do you think they are behind this?
...Out there, they are. A certainty that is.
Do you think Obi-Wan's apprentice will be able to bring balance to the Force?
Only if he chooses to follow his destiny.
Captain Typho has more than enough men downstairs. No assassin will try that way. Any activity up here?
Quiet as a tomb. I don't like just waiting here for something to happen to her.
What's going on?
She covered that camera. I don't think she liked me watching her.
What is she thinking?
She programmed ARTOO to warn us if there's an intruder.
It's not an intruder I'm worried about. There are many other ways to kill a Senator.
I know, but we also want to catch this assassin. Don't we, Master?
You're using her as bait??
It was her idea... No harm will come to her. I can sense everything going on in that room. Trust me.
It's too risky... and your senses aren't that attuned, young apprentice.
And yours are?
Possibly.
You look tired.
I don't sleep well, anymore.
Because of your mother?
I don't know why I keep dreaming About her now. I haven't seen her since I was little.
Dreams pass in time.
I'd rather dream of PADME. Just Being around her again is... intoxicating.
Mind your thoughts, Anakin, they betray you. You've made a commitment to the Jedi order... a commitment not easily broken... and don't forget she's a politician. They're not to be trusted.
She's not like the others in the Senate, Master.
It's been my experience that Senators are only focused on pleasing those who fund their campaigns... and they are more than willing to forget the niceties of democracy to get those funds.
Not another lecture, Master. Not on the economics of politics.... It's too early in the morning... and besides, you're generalising. The Chancellor doesn't appear to be corrupt.
Palpatine's a politician, I've observed that he is very clever at following the passions and prejudices of the Senators.
I think he is a good man. My instincts are very positive about...
I sense it, too.
Stay here!
I have a bad feeling about this.
That was wacky! I almost lost you in the traffic.
What took you so long?
Oh, you know, Master, I couldn't find a speeder I really liked, with an open cockpit... and with the right speed capabilities... and then you know I had to get a really gonzo color...
If you'd spend as much time working on your saber skills as you do on your wit, young Padawan, you would rival Master Yoda as a swordsman.
I thought I already did.
Only in your mind, my very young apprentice. Careful!! Hey, easy!!
Sorry, I forgot you don't like flying, Master.
I don't mind flying... but what you're doing is suicide!
Master, you know I've been flying since before I could walk. I'm very good at this.
Just slow down!
(continuing) Wait! Don't go in there!
(continuing) You know I don't like it when you do that!
Sorry, Master. Don't worry, this guy's gonna kill himself any minute now!
What are you doing? He's gonna blast me!
Right - this isn't working.
That was too close!
Clear that!
What??
Clear the flag! We're losing power! Hurry!
Whooooaaa! Don't do that! I don't like it when you do that!
So sorry, Master.
It's dangerous near those power couplings! Slow down! Don't go through there!
(continuing) Yiiii, what are you doing?
Sorry, Master!
(sarcastically) Oh, that was good...
That was crazy!!!
(continuing) Ahh, damn.
Stop!!
No, we can make it.
I'm crazy... I'm crazy... I'm crazy.
But it worked... we made it.
(angrily) It didn't work... we've stalled! And you almost got us killed!
I think we're still alive.
(very angrily) It was stupid!
(sheepishly) I could have made it...
(furious) But you didn't!!! And now we've lost him.
No we didnt...
Where are you going?! He went down there, the other way.
This is a shortcut... I think.
What do you mean, You think? What kind of shortcut?! He went completely the other way! Youve lost him!
Master, if we keep this chase going, that creeps gonna end up deep fried. Personally, Id very much like to find out who in the hell he is and who hes working for...
(sarcastic) Oh, so thats why were going in the wrong direction.
(continuing) Well, you lost him.
Im deeply sorry, Master.
(continuing) Excuse me for a moment.
Anakin!
She went into that club, Master.
Patience.
(continuing) Here. Next time try not to lose it.
Sorry, Master.
A Jedi's saber is his most precious possession.
Yes, Master.
He must keep it with him at all times.
I know, Master.
This weapon is your life!
I've heard this lesson before..
But, you haven't learned anything, Anakin.
I try, Master.
Why do I think you are going to be the death of me?!
Don't say that Master... You're the closest thing I have to a father... I love you. I don't want to cause you pain.
Then why don't you listen to me?!
I will. I'll do better, I promise.
Do you see him him?
I think he's a she...
Then be extra careful... (nods to a room) Check it out.
Where are you going, Master?
To get a drink.
Wanna buy some death sticks?
You don't want to sell me death- sticks.
I don't want to sell you death- sticks.
You want to go home and rethink your life.
I want to go home and rethink my life.
Easy... Official business. Go back to your drinks
Do you know who it was you were trying to kill?
The Senator from Naboo.
Who hired you?
It was just a job.
Tell us!
That Senator's gonna die soon anyway, and the next one won't make the same mistake I did...
This wound's going to need treatment.
Who hired you? Tell us... tell us now!
It was a Bounty Hunter called...
Toxic Dart...
Representative Binks. I know I can count on you.
Yousa betchen mesa bottums.
What?!
(coughs, recovers) Oh, pardone-ay, Senator. I mean, I am honoured to accept this heavy burden. I take on this responsibility with deep humility tinged with an overwhelming pride. (pompously) It is not every day that I am called upon to...
You're a good friend, Jar Jar. I don't wish to hold you up. I'm sure you have a great deal to do.
Of course, M'lady.
I do not like this idea of hiding.
Don't worry. Now that the Council has ordered an investigation, it won't take Master Obi-Wan long to find that bounty hunter.
"(frustrated) I haven't worked for a year to defeat the ""Military Creation Act"" not to be here when its fate is decided."
Sometimes we have to let go of our pride and do what is requested of us.
Pride?!? Annie, you're young, and you don't have a very firm grip on politics. I suggest you reserve your opinions for some other time.
Sorry, M'lady. I was only trying to...
Annie! No!
Please don't call me that.
What?
Annie...
I've always called you that... i is your name, isn't it?
It's Anakin. When you say Annie it's like I'm still a little boy... and I'm not.
I'm sorry, Anakin. It's impossible to deny you've... (looks him over) ...that you've grown up.
Master Obi-Wan manages not to see it...
Mentors have a way of seeing more of our faults than we would like. It's the only way we grow.
Don't get me wrong... Obi-Wan is a great mentor. As wise as Master Yoda and as powerful as Master Windu. I am truly thankful to be his apprentice. Only... although I'm a Padawan learner, in some ways... a lot of ways... I'm ahead of him. I'm ready for the trials. I know I am! He knows it too. He believes I'm too unpredictable... Other Jedi my age have gone through the trials and made it... I know I started my training late... but he won't let me move on.
That must be frustrating.
It's worse... he's overly critical. He never listens! He just doesn't understand! It's not fair!
I'm sorry... You sounded exactly like that little boy I once knew, when he didn't get his way.
I'm not whining! I'm not.
I didn't say it to hurt you.
I know...
Anakin...
(continuing) Don't try to grow up too fast.
I am grown up. You said it yourself
Please don't look at me like that.
Why not?
Because I can see what you're thinking.
(laughing) Ahh... so, you have Jedi powers too?
It makes me feel uncomfortable.
Sorry, M'lady.
Be safe, m'lady.
Thank you, Captain. Take good care of Dorme... the threat's on you two now.
He'll be safe with me.
You'll be fine.
It's not me, M'Lady. I worry about you. What if they realise I'm not you?
(looks to Anakin) Then my Jedi protector will have to prove how grown up he is.
Anakin, you stay put on Naboo. Do not attract any attention. Do absolutely nothing without checking in with me or the Council.
Yes, Master.
(to Padme) I will get to the bottom of this plot quickly, M'Lady. You'll be back here in no time.
I will be most grateful for your speed, Master Jedi.
Time to go.
I know.
May the Force be with you.
May the Force be with you, Master.
Suddenly, I'm afraid...
I'm kinda scared too. This is my first assignment on my own.
There's nothing to worry about... we have ARTOO with us.
I hope he doesn't try anything foolish.
I'd be more concerned about her doing something, than him.
Place the subject for analysis on the sensot tray, please.
It's a toxic dart. I need to know where it came from and who made it.
One moment, please.
(continuing) As you can see on your screen, subject weapon does not exist in any known culture. Markings cannot be identified. Probablt self-made by a warrior not associated with any known society.
Excuse me? Could you try again please?
Master Jedi, our records are very thorough. they cover eight percent of the galaxy. If I can't tell you where it came from, nobody can.
Thanks for your assistance! You may not be able to figure this out, but I think I know someone who might.
Keep moving! Keep moving!
(continuing) Hey! No Droids!
No, no, Mom, no...
(continuing) What?
You seemed to be having a nightmare.
(continuing) Are you hungry?
Thank you.
We went into lightspeed a while ago.
I look forward to seeing Nabooagain. I've thought about it every day since I left. It's by far the most beautiful place I've ever seen...
"You were just a little boy then. It may not be as you remember it
I think time has given me much more mature feelings to enhance my perception.
It must be difficult having sworn your life to the Jedi... not being able to visit the places you like... or do the things you like...
Or be with the people I love.
Are you allowed to love? I thought that was forbidden for a Jedi.
Attachment is forbidden. Possession is forbidden. Compassion, which I would define as unconditional love, is central to a Jedi's life, so you might say we're encouraged to love.
You have changed so much
You haven't changed a bit. You're exactly the way I remember you in my dreams. I doubt if Naboo has changed much either.
It hasn't...
I can't wait to breathe the sweet breeze that comes off the rolling hills. Whenever I try to visualise the Force, those hills are what I see.
(continuing) I love Naboo.
(changing the subject) Were you dreaming about you mother earlier, weren't you?
Yes... I left Tatooine so long ago, my memory of her is fading. I don't want to lose it. Recently I've been seeing her in my dreams... vivid dreams... scary dreams. I worry about her.
Can I help ya?
I'm looking for Dexter.
Waddya want him for?
He's not in trouble. It's personal.
Someone to see ya, honey (lowering her voice) A Jedi by the looks of him.
Obi-Wan!
Hey, Dex.
Take a seat! Be right with ya!
You want a cup of ardees?
Thank you.
Hey, ol' buddy!
Hey, Dex.
So, my friend. What can I do for ya?
You can tell me what this is.
Well, whattaya know...
I ain't seen one of these since I was prospecting on Subterrel beyond the Outer Rim!
Do you know where it came from ?
This baby belongs to them cloners. What you got here is a Kamino Kyberdart.
Kamino Kyberdart... I wonder why it didn't show up in any analysis archive.
It's these funny little cuts on the side give it away... Those analysis droids you've got over there only focus on symbols, you know. I should think you Jedi would have more respect for the difference between knowledge and wisdom.
Well, Dex, if droids could think, we wouldn't be here, would we? (laughing) Kamino... doesn't sound familiar. Is it part of the Republic?
No, it's beyond the Outer Rim. I'd say about twelve parsecs outside the Rishi Maze, toward the south. It should be easy to find, even for those droids in your archive to find. Those Kaminoans keep to themselves. They're cloners. Damned good ones, too.
Cloners? Are they friendly?
It depends.
On what, Dex?
On how good your manners are... and how big your pocketbook is...
If I grew up here, I don't think I'd ever leave.
(laughing) I doubt that.
No, really. When I started my training, I was very homesick and very lonely. This city and my Mom were the only pleasant things I had to think about... The problem was, the more I thought about my Mom, the worse I felt. But I would feel better if I thought about the palace - the way it shimmers in the sunlight - the way the air always smells of flowers...
...and the soft sound of the distant waterfalls. The first time I saw the Capital, I was very young... I'd never seen a waterfall before. I though they were so beautiful... I never dreamed one day I'd live in the palace.
Well, tell me, did you dream of power and politics when you were a little girl?
"(laughing) No! That was the last thing I thought of. My dream was to help in the ""Refugee Relief Movement."" I never thought of running for elected office. But the more history I studied, the more I realised how much good politicians could do. So when I was eight, I joined the ""Apprentice Legislators"", then later on became a Senatorial advisor, with such a passion that, before I knew it, I was elected Queen. Partly because I scored so high on my education certificate, but for the most part it was my conviction that reform was possible. I wasn't the youngest Queen ever elected, but now that I think back on it, I'm not sure I was old enough. I'm not sure I was ready."
The people you served thought you did a good job. I heard they tried to amend the Constitution so you could stay in office.
Popular rule is not democracy, Annie. It gives the people what they want, not what they need. And, truthfully, I was relieved when my two terms were up. So were my parents. They worried About me during the blockade and couldn't wait for it all to be over. Actually, I was hoping to have a family by now... My sisters have the most amazing, wonderful kids... but when the Queen asked me to serve as Senator, I couldn't refuse her.
I agree! I think the Republic needs you... I'm glad you chose to serve. I feel things are going to happen in our generation that will change the galaxy in profound ways.
I think so too.
We've been worried about you. (takes her hand) I'm so glad you're safe, PADME.
Thank you, Your Highness. I only Wish I could have served you better by staying on Coruscant for the vote.
Given the circumstances, Senator, you know it was the only decision Her Highness could have made.
How many systems have joined Count Dooku and the separatists?
About two hundred. And more are leaving the Republic every day. If the Senate votes to create an army, I'm sure it's going to push us into a civil war.
It's unthinkable! There hasn't been a full-scale war since the formation of the Republic!
Do you see any way, through negotiations, to bring the separatists back into the Republic?
Not if they feel threatened. The separatists don't have an army, but if they are provoked, they will move to defend themselves. I'm sure of that. And with no time or money to build an army, my guess is they will turn to the Commerce Guilds or the Trade Federation for help.
The armies of commerce! Why has Nothing been done in the Senate to restrain them?
I'm afraid that, despite the Chancellor's best efforts, there are still many bureaucrats, judges, and even Senators on the payrolls of the Guilds.
It's outrageous! After all of those hearings, and the four trials in the Supreme Court, Nute Gunray is still the Viceroy of the Trade Federation. Do those money mongers control everything?
Remember, Counsellor, the courts were able to reduce the Federation's armies. That's a move in the right direction.
There are rumours, Your Highness, that the Federation Army was not reduced as they were ordered.
The Jedi have not been allowed to investigate. It would be to be too dangerous for the economy, we were told.
We must keep our faith in the Republic. The day we stop believing democracy can work is the day we lose it.
Let's pray that day never comes.
In the meantime, we must consider your own safety.
What is your suggestion, Master Jedi?
Anakin's not a Jedi yet, Counsellor. He's still a Padawan learner. I was thinking...
(nettled) Hey, hold on a minute!
Excuse me! I was thinking I would stay in the Lake Country. There are some places up there that are very isolated.
Excuse me?! I am in charge of security here, M'Lady.
Annie, my life is at risk, and this is my home. I know it very well... that is why we're here. I think it would be wise for you to take advantage of my knowledge in this instance.
(takes a deep breath) Sorry, M'Lady.
She is right. The Lake Country is the most remote part of Naboo. Not many people and a clear view of the surrounding terrain.
Perfect. It's settled then.
PADME, I had an audience with your father yesterday. I told him what was happening. He hopes you will visit your mother before you leave... your family's very worried about you.
Did you call for assistance?
(distracted in thought) Yes... yes, I did...
He has a powerful face, doesn't he? He was one of the most brilliant Jedi I have had the privilege of knowing.
I never understood why he quit. Only twenty Jedi have ever left the Order.
The Lost Twenty... and COUNT DOKU was the most recent and the most painful. No one likes to talk about it. His leaving was a great loss to the Order.
What happened?
Well, one might say, he was always a bit out of step with the decisions of the Council... much like your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.
(surprised) Really?
Oh, yes. They were alike in many ways. Very individual thinkers... idealists...
He was always striving to become a more powerful Jedi. He wanted to be the best. With a lightsaber, in the old style of fencing, he had no match. His knowledge of the Force was... unique. In the end, I think he left because he lost faith in the Republic. He believed that politics were corrupt, and he felt the Jedi betrayed themselves by serving the politicians. He always had very high expectations of government. He disappeared for nine or ten years, then he just showed up recently as the head of the separatist movement.
Interesting... I'm still not sure I understand.
Well, I'm sure you didn't call me over here for a history lesson. Are you having a problem, Master Kenobi?
Yes, I'm trying to find a planet system called Kamino. It doesn't seem to show upon any of the archive charts.
Kamino? It's not a system I'M familiar with... Let me see...
Are you sure you have the right co-ordinates?
(nodding) According to my information, it should be in this quadrant somewhere... just south of the Rishi Maze.
No co-ordinates? It sounds like the kind of directions you'd get from a street tout... some old miner or Furbog trader.
All three actually.
Are you sure it exists?
Absolutely.
Let me do a gravitational scan.
There are some inconsistencies here. Maybe the planet you're looking for was destroyed.
Wouldn't that be on record?
It ought to be. Unless it was very recent. (shakes her head) I hate to say it, but it looks like the system you're searching for doesn't exist.
That's impossible... perhaps the archives are incomplete.
The archives are comprehensive and totally secure, my young Jedi. One thing you may be absolutely sure of - if an item does not appear in our records, it does not exist!
There's my house!
(continuing) What? Don't say you're shy!
(untruthfully) No, but I...
Aunt Padme!! Aunt Padme!!
Ryoo!! Pooja!!
(continuing) I'm so happy to see you! This is Anakin. Anakin, this is Ryoo, and this is Pooja.
ARTOO!!!
(over her shoulder) They're eating over at Jev Narran's later, Mom. They just had a snack. They'll be fine.
Anakin, this is my sister, Sola.
Hello, Anakin.
Hello.
You're just in time for dinner. I hope you're hungry, Anakin.
A little.
He's being polite, Mom. We're starving.
(grinning) You came to the right place at the right time. Sit down, son.
(to Padme) Honey, it's so good to see you safe. We were so worried.
Dear...
I know, I know... but I had to say it. Now it's done.
Well, this is exciting! Do you know, Anakin, you're the first boyfriend my sister's ever brought home?
(rolls her eyes) Sola!! He isn't my boyfriend! He's a Jedi assigned by the Senate to protect me.
A bodyguard?! Oh, Padme! They didn't tell us it was that serious!
It's not, Mom, I promise. (glances at Jobal) Anyway, Anakin's a friend. I've known him for years. Remember that little boy who was with the Jedi during the blockade crisis?
(continuing) He grew up.
Honey, when are you going to settle down? Haven't you had enough of that life? I certainly have!
Mom, I'm not in any danger.
(to Anakin) Is she?
...Yes... I'm afraid she is.
(quickly) But not much.
Sometimes I wish I'd traveled more... but I must say, I'm happy here.
Padme tells me you teach at the university?
(nodding) Yes, and before that, I was a builder. I also worked for the Refugee Relief Movement, when I was very young.
Why haven't you told us about him?
What's there to talk about? He's just a boy.
A boy? Have you seen the way he looks at you?
Sola - stop it!
It's obvious he has feelings for you. Are you saying, little baby sister, that you haven't noticed?
I'm not your baby sister, Sola. Anakin and I are friends... our relationship is strictly professional. (to Jobal) Mom, would you tell her to stop it?
(laughing) Well, maybe you haven't noticed the way he looks at you. I think you're afraid to.
Cut it out.
Sola's just concerned... we all are.
Oh, Mom, you're impossible. What I'm doing is important.
You've done your service, PADME. It's time you had a life of your own. You're missing so much!
Now tell me, son. How serious is this thing? How much danger is my daughter really in?
There have been two attempts on her life. Chances are there'll be more. My Master is tracking down the assassins. I'm sure he'll find out who they are. This situation, won't last long.
I don't want anything to happen to her.
I don't either.
Don't worry, this won't take long.
I just want to get there before dark.
(continuing) You still live at home.
I move around so much, I've never had a place of my own. Official residences have no warmth. I feel good here. I feel at home.
I never had a real home. Home was always where my Mom was.
(continuing) Is this you?
That was when I went with the Relief Group to Shadda-Bi-Boran. Their sun was imploding, and the planet was dying. I was helping to relocate the children. See that little one I'm holding? His name was N'a-kee-tula, which means sweethear. He was so full of life,. All those kids were. I did everything I could to save him, but he died... they all did. They were never able to adapt... to live off their native planet.
(continuing) My first day as an Apprentice Legislator. Notice the difference?
Don't think... feel... be as one with the Force. Help you, it will. (he sees Obi-Wan) Younglings - enough! A visitor we have. Welcome him.
(continuing) Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, meet the mighty Bear Clan.
Welcome, Master Obi-Wan!
I am sorry to disturb you, Master.
What help to you, can I be?
Im looking for a planet described to me by an old friend. I trust him. But the system doesnt show up on the archive maps.
An interesting puzzle. Gather round the map reader, younglings. Master Obi-Wan has lost a planet. Find it, we will try...
This is where it ought to be... but it isnt. Gravity is pulling all the stars in this area inward to this spot. There should be a star here... but there isnt.
Most interesting. Gravitys silhouette remains, but the star and all its planets have disappeared. How can this be?
Because someone erased it from the archive memory.
Thats right! Yes! Thats what happened! Someone erased it!
If the planet blew up, the gravity would go away.
Truly wonderful, the mind of a child is. Uncluttered. To the centre of the pull of gravity go, and find your planet you will.
But Master Yoda who could have erased information from the archives? Thats impossible, isnt it?
(frowning) Much harder to answer, that question is.
When I was in Level Three, we used to come here for school retreat. See that island? We used to swim there every day. I love the water.
I do too. I guess it comes from growing up on a desert planet.
...We used to lie on the sand and let the sun dry us... and try to guess the names of the birds singing.
I dont like sand. Its coarse and rough and irritating, and it gets everywhere. Not like here. Here everythings soft... and smooth...
There was a very old man who lived on the island. He used to make glass out of sand - and vases and necklaces out of the glass. They were magical.
(looks into her eyes) Everything here is magical.
You could look into the glass and see the water. The way it ripples and moves. It looked so real... but it wasnt.
Sometimes, when you believe something to be real, it becomes real. Real enough, anyway...
I used to think if you looked too deeply into glass, you would lose yourself.
I think it's true...
I shouldn't have done that.
I'm sorry. When I'm around you, my mind is no longer my own.
It's the situation... the stress...
...the view.
Be wary, this disturbance in the Force is growing stronger.
I am concerned for my Padawan. He is not ready to be on his own.
The Council is confident in this decision, Obi-Wan.
He has exceptional skills. The Council is confident in its decision, Obi-Wan. If the prophecy is true, he weill be the one to bring balance to the Force.
But he still has much to learn. And his abilities have made him... well... arrogant. I realise now what you and Master Yoda knew from the beginning... the boy was too old to start the training and...
There's something else?
Master, he should not have been given this assignment. I'm afraid Anakin won't be able to protect the Senator.
Why?
He has a... an emotional connection with her. It's been there since he was boy. Now he's confused... distracted.
Obi-Wan, you must have faith that he will take the right path.
Has Master Yoda gained any insight into whether or not this war will come about?
Probing the Dark Side is a dangerous process. He could be in seclusion for days... May the force be with you.
You did that?
What?
That! Now stop it!
(continuing) Anakin!!
I'm not really supposed to do that... for fun, I mean. If Master Obi-Wan were here, he'd be very grumpy.
May I tell you something?
I don't know.
Then how can I tell you?
Maybe you should use your Jedi intuition.
It doesn't work around you. My mind is always a muddle... I can only think of you.
Anakin, don't...
From the moment I met you, all those years ago, a day hasn't gone by when I haven't thought of you. And now that I'm close to you again, I'm in agony. The closer I get to you, the worse it gets. The thought of not being with you mskes my stomach turn over - my mouth goes dry. I feel dizzy. I can't breathe. I'm haunted by the kiss you should never have given me. My heart is beating, hoping that kiss will not become a scar. You are in my very soul, tormenting me. What can I do? I will do anything you ask...
(continuing) If you are suffering as much as I am, tell me.
...I can't. We can't. It's just not possible.
Anything's possible. Padme, please listen...
You listen. We live in a real world. Come back to it. You're studying to become a Jedi Knight. I'm a Senator. If you follow your thoughts through to conclusion, they will take us to a place we cannot go... regardless of the way we feel about each other.
Then you do feel something! There's an extraordinary connection between us. You can't deny that.
Annie, it doesn't make any difference. Jedi aren't allowed to marry. You swore an oath, remember? You'd be expelled from the Order. I will not let you give up your responsibilities... your future, for me.
I was destined to be a Jedi. I don't think I could be anything else. But you are asking me to be rational. That is something I know I cannot do. I wish I could wish my feelings away... but I can't.
I am not going to give into this. I'm not going to throw my life away. I have more important things to do than fall in love.
It wouldn't have to be that way... we could keep it a secret.
Then we'd be living a lie - one we couldn't keep even if we wanted to. Mt sister saw it. So did my mother. I couldn't do that. Could you, Anakin? Could you live like that?
...No, you're right. It would destroy us.
Welcome to Tipoca City, Master Jedi.
Everything is ready. The Prime Minister expects you.
(warily) I'm expected?
Of course! He is anxious to see you. After all these years, we were beginning to think you weren't coming. Now please, this way!
May I present Lama Su, Prime Minister of Kamino... and this is Master Jedi...
Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Please...
I trust you are going to enjoy your stay. We are most happy you have arrived at the best part of the season.
You make me feel most welcome.
And now to business. You will be delighted to hear we are on schedule. Two hundred thousand units are ready, with another million well on the way.
(improvising) That is... good news.
Please tell your Master Sido-Dyas that we have every confidence his order will be met on time and in full. He is well, I hope?
I'm sorry Master - ?
Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas. He's still a leading member of the Jedi Council, is he not?
Oh, yes. Sido-Dyas.
(rising) You must be anxious to inspect the units for yourself.
That's why I'm here.
I don't know...
Sure you do... you just don't want to tell me.
Are you going to use one of your Jedi mind tricks on me?
They only work on the weak-minded. You are anything but weak-minded.
All right... his name was Palo. I was twelve. We were both in the Legislative Youth Program. He was a few years older then I... very cute... dark curly hair... dreamy eyes.
All right, I get the picture... whatever happened to him?
I went on to become a Queen. He went on to become an artist.
Maybe he was the smart one.
You really don't like politicians, do you?
I like two or three, but I'm not really sure about one of them. (smiling) I don't think the system works.
How would you have it work?
We need a system where the politicians sit down and discuss the problems, agree what's in the best interests of all the people, and then do it.
That is exactly what we do. The trouble is that people don't wlways agree. In fact, they hardly ever do.
Then they should be made to.
By whom? Who's going to make them?
I don't know. Someone.
You?
Of course not me.
But someone.
Someone wise.
That sounds an awful lot like a dictatorship to me.
Well, if it works...
You're making fun of me.
(sarcastic) On no, I'd be much too frightened to tease a Senator.
You're so bad!
You're always so serious. Always carrying the weight of the universe on your shoulders.
(beaming) Magnificent, aren't they?
We modified their genetic structure to make them less independent than the original host. As a result they are totally obedient, taking any order without question.
Who was the original host?
A bounty hunter called Jango Fett. We felt a Jedi would be the perfect choice, but Sido-Dyas hand- picked Jango Fett himself.
Where is this bounty hunter now?
Oh, we keep him here. After a few hundred thousand clones, the genetic pattern starts to fade, so we take a fresh supply. He lives here, but he's free to come and go as he pleases.
Apart from his pay, which is considerable, Fett demanded only one thing - an unaltered clone for himself. Curious isn't it?
Unaltered?
Pure genetic replication. No tampering with the structure to make it more docile... and no growth acceleration...
I would like to meet this *JANGO FETT
I would be most happy to arrange it, for you.
You mentioned growth acceleration...
Oh yes, it's essential. Otherwise, a mature clone would take a lifetime to grow. Now, we can do it in half the time. Those items you saw on the parade ground were started ten years ago, when Sido-dyas first placed the order, and they're already mature...
And these?
About five years ago.
They're immensely superior to droids, capable of independent thought and action.
Very impressive.
I'd hoped you would be pleased.
(carefully) Tell me, prime minister, when my Master Sido-dyas first contacted you, did he say the order was for... himself... or?
Himself? Of course not. This army is for the Republic?
(astonished) The Repubic?
We are also very much agasint this Count Dooku and his seccessionist movement. We are proud to be of help to the Republic.
I have arranged for you to meet Jango Fett in the morning. Sleep well.
Arfour, Arfour...
"Arfour, relay this, ""scramble code five,"" to Courscant: care of ""the old folks home."""
...I've never heard of a Jedi called Sido-Dyas, have you, Master?
No. Whoever placed that order was not a Jedi, I can assure you.
I have a strong feeling that this bounty hunter is the assassin we're looking for.
Who he is working for... discover that, you must.
I will, Master, and I will also find out more about this clone army... May The Force...
A clone army! Ordered by someone in the Senate perhaps... Someone's out to start a war.
Inform the chancellor of this, we must.
Who do you think this impostor Sido-Dyas, could be?
No...No...No...Mom!...Don't, no, don't!
(eyes closed) Don't go.
I don't want to disturb you.
Your presence is soothing.
You had a nightmare again last night.
Jedi don't have nightmares.
I heard you.
I saw my mother. I saw her as clearly as I see you now. She's suffering, Padme. She is in pain...They're killing her! (getting up) I know I'm disobeying my mandate to protect you, Senator. I know I will be punished and possibly thrown out of the Jedi Order, but I must go. I have to help her! I'm sorry, Padme. I don't have a choice.
Annie, I told you I wouldn't let you give up your future for me. I'll go with you. That way you can continue to protect me, and you won't be disobeying your mandate.
What about Master Obi-wan?
I guess we won't tell him, will we?
Boba, is your father here?
(continuing) May we see him?
Sure.
Dad! Taun We's here!
Welcome back, Jango. Was your trip productive?
Fairly.
This is Jedi Master, *OBI-WAN
That right?
Your clones are very impressive. You must be very proud.
I'm just a simple man, trying to make my way in the universe, Master Jedi.
Aren't we all?
(continuing) Ever made your way as far into the interior as Coruscant?
Once or twice.
Recently?
(eyes Obi-Wan carefully) Possibly...
Then you must know Master Sido- Dyas?
Boba, close the door.
(continuing) Master who?
Sido-Dyas. Isnt he the Jedi who hired you for this job?
Never heard of him. I was recuited by a man called Darth Tyranus on one of the moons of Bogden.
No? I thought...
Sido-Dyas told us to expect him. And he showed up just when your Jedi Master said he would. We have kept the Jedis involvement a secret until your arrival, just as your Master requested.
Curious...
Do you like your army?
It seems to me it's your army - being that they are all clones of you.
(grinning) They'll do their job well, I'll guarantee that.
I look forward to seeing them in action. Thank you for your time, Jango.
Always a pleasure to meet a Jedi.
What is it, Dad?
(to the droid driver) Wait, please.
(yelling, in Huttese) No, not that one - that one!
(arriving) Excuse me, Watto.
(in Huttese) What?
(in Huttese) I said excuse me.
(in Huttese) Shut down.
(continuing, in Huttese) What? I don't know you... What can I do for you? You look like a Jedi. Whatever it is... I didn't do it.
Let me help you with that.
(continuing) I'm looking for Shmi Skywalker.
Annie?? Little Annie?? Naaaah!!
"(continuing
(continuing) You sure sprouted Weehoo! A Jedi! Waddya know? Hey, maybe you couldda help wit some daedbeats who owe...
My mother...
Oh, yeah. Shmi... she's not mine no more. I sold her.
Sold her...
Years ago. Sorry, Anne, but you know, business is business. Sold her to a moisture farmer named Lars. Least I think it was Lars. Believe it or not, I heard he freed her and married her. Can ya beat that?
Do you know where they are?
Long way from here... someplace over on the other side of Mos Eisley, I think...
I'd like to know.
Yeah... sure... absolutely. Let's go look in my records.
Tell your Council the first battalions are ready. And remind them that if they need more troops, we will need time to grow them.
I won't forget.
Dad!!
Stay with the ship, ARTOO.
Good evening. May I help you?
THREEPIO?
Oh, my... oh, my! Master Anakin! My goodness, I can hardly believe it! And this must be Miss Padme.
Hello, THREEPIO.
I've come to see my mother.
Oh, dear! I'm so terribly sorry, Master Annie.
THREEPIO, what's happened?
I think we'd better go inside.
Master Lars - Master Owen! Somebody to see you!
I'm Anakin Skywalker. I'm here looking for my mother.
Owen Lars... I guess I'm your step-brother. (they shake hands) This is my girlfriend, Beru.
Hello.
I'm Padme.
I had a feeling you might show up some day.
Is my mother here?
No, she's not.
(continuing) Cliegg Lars. Shmi is my wife... Come on inside. We have a lot to talk about.
It was just before dawn. They came out of nowhere. A hunting party of Tusekn Raiders.
Your mother had gone out early, like she always did, to pick mushrooms that grow on the vaporatos. From the tracks, she was about halfway when they took her. Those Tuskens walk like men, but they're vicious, mindless monsters. Thirty of us went out after her. Four of us came back. Three more are still out there looking. I'd be with them, only... I just couldn't ride any more... until I heal.
(continuing) This isn't the way I wanted to meet you, son. This isn't how your mother and I planned it. I don't want to give up on her, but she's been gone a month. There's little hope she's lasted this long.
Where are you going?
To find my mother.
No, Annie!
She's dead, son. Accept it.
I can feel her pain, and I will find her. I know she's alive.
You are going to have to stay here. These are good people, Padme. You'll be safe.
Take my speeder bike.
Anakin...
I trust you'll watch over her, Owen.
Don't worry.
I won't be long.
Nearly there, son.
Dad, look!!
Hang on!
Dad! Watch out!
Stay calm, son. We'll be fine. That Jedi won't be able to follow us through this.
Got him! Yeahhhhh!
We won't see him again.
Please don't leave us, Miss Padme. These people need your help.
I'm not leaving, THREEPIO. I just can't sleep.
That's something I cannot relate to. As a Protocol Droid, I'm either active or inactive. There's no in-between.
I guess you're lucky.
Do you really think so..? I suppose I shouldn't expect...
You're not happy here?
Oh, I'm not unhappy... and my masters here ar so kind I wouldn't wish to trouuble them, it's just... being like this... well, it's embarrassing.
Being like what?
Naked. If you pardon the expression. You see, when Master Annie made me, he never quite found the time to give me any outer covering. It's so humiliating. How would you like it if you had to go around with all your circuits showing?
I guess I wouldn't like it at all.
Of course you wouldn't. Nobody would. It's simply not protocol.
Maybe we can do something about it.
I don't think so. Only Master Annie...
Why not? They seem to have a box of old coverings here.
Oh? How observant of you, Miss Padme. Of course, I'm just not mechanically minded... if you see what I mean.
Let's see, if we put this... here...
Ooooh! That's tickles.
You'll have to be quiet, THREEPIO. Hold still, please.
Mom... Mom... Mom...
Annie...? Is it you?
Im here, Mom. Youre safe. Hang on. Im going to get you out of here...
Im so glad... to see you, Annie... Now... I am complete...
Just stay with me, Mom. Im going to make you well again. Everythings going to be fine.
You look so handsome. My son... my grown-up son. Im so proud of you, Annie... so proud... I missed you so much... I love...
"""Guiding light"" to ""old folks home."""
...Starships from the Trade Federation and the Commerce Guilds are taking deliveries of battle droids from the foundries on Geonosis.
That's outrageous! The treaty forbids the Trade Federation from building up an army. What are they doing?!
The droid foundry seems to be working at full capacity. I am going to go down and investigate. I will bring Jango Fett back home for interrogation.
Those Geonosian foundries are part of the Techno Union. We will call in their representatives and ask them a few very pointed questions.
One more thing. Jango mentioned he was recruited by someone named Darth Tyranus. Any idea who that might be?
With the forename Darth, a Sith he must be.
Our missing apprentice. They are playing their hand at last.
Do you believe he could be the mysterious Sido-Dyas, who made the deal for the clone army?
Perhaps too many pieces are missing from this puzzle, there are.
Be careful, Obi-Wan. This investigation is becoming less than routine. Do you need help?
Let me see if I can figure out what's going on first.
The Commerce Guilds are preparing for war... there can be no doubt of that.
Count Dooku must have made a treaty with them.
We must stop them soon before they're fully ready.
The debate is over, we need that clone army now!
Unfortunately, the debate is not over. The Senate will never be able to approve the use of that army before the separatists attack.
This is a crisis! If the Senate votes the Chancellor emergency powers, he could approve the use of the army in a minute.
Please, please, I don't wish to have emergency powers. That's too extreme a solution. It's akin to a dictatorship. We must rely on the Jedi. Master Yoda, how many are available to go to Geonosis?
Two Hundred,... less or more.
With all due respect for the Jedi Order, two hundred will be no match for hundreds of thousands of battle droids.
Patience. We should wait for Obi- Wan to report back. We don't know that Count Dooku has made a treaty with the Corporate Alliance, it's speculation.
But we must prepare for the worst. I'm going to propose a motion granting emergency powers to the Chancellor at the next session. We must not wait!
Out of the question, Senator! You and I are too closely aligned. The issue will become partisan and debates will begin. The proposal must come from a neutral source.
If only Senator Amidala were here.
Supreme Chancellor... my august colleagues, I would be proud to propose the motion in question. This is a grave situation, and I'm sure Senator Amidala, and the Queen of Naboo would agree.
Thank you, Representative Binks.
If called upon, I will serve. But it will be the saddest day of my life.
There!
Um. How do I look?
Great! You look perfect.
Perfect? Oh, Miss Padme, I'm so happy! (extending his hand to shake hers) Oh, pardon me.
(continuing) Thank you.
(continuing) Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
(grinning) Well, Padme, I think he should be yours from now on... I know that is what my Mom would want.
Oh, my!
Come topside, everybody! He's back! He's back!
...Alliance have pledged their armies to Count Dooku and are forming an... Wait!... ah... attack... I don't... make it... aaaggghhh!
I'm going after him!
I thought the first thing he said was to retransmit his message to Coruscant.
Yeah, you're right, you're right.
We will deal with Count Dooku. The most important thing for you, Anakin, is to stay where you are. Protect the Senator at all costs. That is your priority.
Understood, Master.
They'll never get there in time to save him. They have to come half way across the galaxy. Look, Geonosis is less than a parsec away.
If he's still alive.
Annie, are you just going to sit here and let him die?? He's your friend... your mentor...
...He's like my father, but you heard Master Windu. He gave me strict orders to stay here.
He gave you strict orders to protect me...
(continuing) ...and I'm going to save Obi-Wan. So if you plan to protect me, you will have to come along.
The longer we wait, the stronger Dooku's armies become. We cannot wait for the Senate to make up its mind about granting the Chancellor emergency powers, in order to be able to use that clone army... We have the authority to go now. We must go now.
Agreed, Master Windu. Two hundred Jedi send. Enough, let's hope they are.
Order! Order!!
In the regrettable absence of Senator Amidala, the chair recognises Senior Representative of Naboo, JAR JAR Binks.
Senators, dellow felagates...
Order! The Senate will accord the Representative the courtesy of a hearing!
In response to the direct threat to the Republic from the Confederacy of Independent Systems, I propose that the Senate gives immediate emergency powers to the Supreme Chancellor.
(continuing) Who can deny these are exceptional times? Exceptional times demand exceptional measures! Exceptional measures demand exceptional men!
We won't support a dictator.
That is the sentiment every one of us agrees with! And when the shadow of war has dispersed and the bright day of liberty has dawned once again, the power we now give to the Supreme Chancellor will be gladly, and swiftly returned. Out ancient liberties will be restored to us, burnished even more brightly than before!
It is with great reluctance that I have agreed to this calling. I love democracy... I love the Republic. The fact that this crisis is demanding I be given absolute power to tule over you is evident. But I am mild by nature and have no desire to destroy the democratic process. The power you give me I will lay down when this crisis has abated, I promise you. And all I ask in return is when my current term of office is over, you allow me to reture and live out my life in peace.
We shall proceed to the vote. All those in favor of granting emergency powers to the Supreme Chancellor, signal ate at this time... those opposed?
Hey, where are you going?
To find Obi-Wan.
No! You're not!
Let go of me!
I'm not letting you go out there. It's too dangerous.
What?!?
It's my job to protect you. I said it's too dangerous. You're not going, and that's final!
Don't you give me orders, Annie! I'm a Senator of the Galactic Republic. You have no authority to contain me, restrain me, or direct me! You remember your place, young man. (standing up) Now you can come along and protect me or stay here. It's up to you.
Yes, it is, ARTOO. Most confusing. One moment they're generating a pleasant mutual attraction and the next, waves of violent hostility. Even though I'm programmed to understand them, I doubt if I ever shall.
(in a low voice) It's empty!
Wait!
Senator Amidala, I've heard so much about you.
Count Dooku, I assume.
I'm delighted to meet you at last. We have a great deal to discuss, Senator. I hope you can keep your young Jedi under control.
Don't worry he's housebroken.
You are holding a Jedi Knight, Obi- Wan Kenobi. I am formally requesting you turn him over to me, now.
He has been convicted of espionage, Senator, and will be executed. In just a few hours, I believe.
He is an officer of the Republic. You can't do that.
We don't recognise the Republic here, Senator. But if Naboo were to join our Alliance, I could easily hear your plea for clemency.
And if I don't join your rebellion, I assume this Jedi with me will also die?
I don't wish to make you to join our cause against your will, Senator, but you are a rational, honest representative of your people and I assume you want to do what's in their best interest. Aren't you fed up with the corruption, the bureaucrats, the hypocrisy of it all?.. Aren't you? Be honest, Senator.
The ideals are still alive, Count, even if the institution is failing.
You believe in the same ideals we believe in! The same ideals we are striving to make prominent.
If what you say is true, you should stay in the Republic and help Chancellor Palpatine put things right.
The Chancellor means well, M'Lady but he is incompetent. He has promised to cut the bureaucracy, but the bureaucrats are stronger than ever, no? Senator, the Republic cannot be fixed. It is time to start over. The democratic process in the Republic is a sham, a shell game played on the voters. It will not be long before the cult of greed, called the Republic, will lose even the pretext of democracy and freedom.
I cannot believe that. I will not forsake all I have honoured and worked for and betray the Republic. I know of your treaties with the Trade Federation, the Commerce Guilds, and the others, Count. What is happening here is not government that has been bought out by business... it's business becoming government!
Are you willing to betray your Jedi friends? Without your co-operation I can do nothing to stop their execution.
What is to happen to me? Am I to be executed also?
I wouldn't think of such an offence. But, there are individuals who have a strong interest in your demise, M'lady. It has nothing to do with politics, I'm afraid. It's purely personal, and they have already paid great sums to have you assassinated. I'm sure they will push hard to have you included in the executions. I'm sorry but if you are not going to co-operate, I must turn you over to the Geonosians for justice. I've done all I can for you.
I'll take that weapon.
You may cause a lot of bloodshed, my young Jedi, but you will not escape.
Anakin...
You have been charged and found guilty of Espionage.
Do you have anything to say before your sentence is carried out?
You are committing an act of war, Archduke. I hope you are prepared for the consequences.
We build weapons, Senator... that is our business! Of course we're prepared!
Get on with it. Carry out the sentence. I want to see her suffer.
Your other Jedi friend is waiting for you, Senator. Take them to the arena!
Don't be afraid.
I'm not afraid to die. I've been dying a little bit each day since you came back into my life.
What are you talking about?
I love you.
You love me?! I thought we decided not to fall in love. That we would be forced to live a lie. That it would destroy our lives...
I think our lives are about to be destroyed anyway. My love for you is a puzzle, Annie, for which I have no answers. I can't control it... and now I don't care. I truly, deeply love you, and before we die I want you to know.
I have no desire to be cured of this love either. Long or short, I vow to spend the rest of my life with you.
I was beginning to wonder if you had gotten my message.
I retransmitted it as you requested, Master. Then we decided to come and rescue you.
It looks like you're going a good job so far.
The felons before you have been convicted of espionage against the Sovereign System of Geonosis. Their sentence of death is to be carried out in this public arena henceforth.
Let the executions begin!
I have a bad feeling about this.
Take the one the left. I'll take the one on the right.
What about Padme?
It looks like she's already on top of things.
Foul!! She can't do that... shoot her or something!
You okay?
(nods, gasping) Sure! Well, sort of.
Jump!!!
This isn't how it's supposed to be! Jango, finish her off.
(smiling enigmatically) Patiece, Viceroy... she will die. Maybe this is the way it's supposed to end.
Yes, it has been rather a long time. Do you suppose something's happened to them?
(continuing) Danger? Oh no, I shouldn't think so. It looks a very dull planet to me. They should be back shortly. Just stop worrying, ARTOO.
Master Windu, how pleasant of you to join us. You're just in time for the moment of truth. I would think these two new boys of yours could use a little more training.
Sorry to disappoint you, Dooku. This party's over.
(to Mace Windu) Brave, but stupid, my old Jedi friend. You're impossibly outnumbered.
I don't think so. One Jedi has to be worth a hundred Geonosians.
It wasn't the Geonosians I was thinking about. How well do you think one Jedi will hold up against a thousand battle droids?
I don't hear anything. (ARTOO beeps) You're scaring me! Stop imagining things!
Someone's got to - shut down - these droids.
Don't worry! It's being - taken care of!
We've done it! Now we have a chance!
The system's off but they're still active. That's a new feature. They are independent of the control system.
Master Windu!
(continuing) You have fought gallantly. Worthy of recognition in the history archives of the Jedi Order. Now it is finished. (pauses briefly) Surrender - and your lives will be spared.
We will not be hostages for you to barter with Dooku.
Then, I'm sorry, old friend. You will have to be destroyed.
Look!
Come on - hurry! Hurry!
More battalions to the left. Encircle them we must, then divide.
I'm sure I heard something, this time. Didn't you? It's probably just a celebration
Hold on! Look over there...
It's Dooku, go after him!
(continuing) Padme!!!
"(continuing
No! Forget her. We have to go after Dooku.
No we're not!! Land this ship!
Don't let your personal feelings get in the way. We've got a job to do.
I don't care!.. Go back.
Anakin! She's all right! Look.
(continuing) Follow that speeder!
Your Excellency!
That won't be necessary, Captain. Stand down. And leave them to me.
(to Anakin) We move in together - you slowly on the...
I'm taking him now!
Anakin, no!
You'll pay for all the Jedi you've killed today, Dooku.
Kenobi, isn't it? As you can see, my Jedi powers are far beyond yours. Now, back down.
I don't think so.
Ah, but if I must.
(continuing) I have spent the last ten years learning to use the power of the Dark Side. It gives me infinitely greater power.
You will have to prove it.
Grand Master Kenobi, you disappoint me. Yoda holds you in such high esteem.
(continuing) Surely you can do better...? (parries) No, I'm surprised. Has Jedi swordsmanship degenerated so quickly, or are you trying to make fun of me? (cuts) Which is it?
(continuing) come, come, Master Kenobi. Put me out of my misery.
(continuing) That's brave of you, boy - but foolish. I would have thought you'd have learnt your lesson.
I'm a slow learner.
You have unusual powers, young Padawan. But not enought to save you this time.
Don't bet on it!
Anakin!
Master Yoda. At last we shall know who is the most powerful.
Count Dooku. No interest in contests, do I have.
(continuing) The end for you, Count, this is.
...Not yet...
Anakin!
Resistance is at an end, General. What are your orders ?
The Force is with us, my Master.
Welcome home, Lord Tyranus. You have done well.
I bring you good news, my Lord. The war has begun.
Excellent. (smiling) Everything is going as planned.
Where is your apprentice?
On his way back to Naboo. He is escorting Senator Amidala home.
(continuing) I must admit without the clones, it would not have been a victory.
Victory? Victory, you say?
(continuing) Not victory, a defeat, it was... Master Obi-Wan. Begun, the Clone War has!
There isn't a droid made that can out fly you, Master, and no other way to get to the Chancellor...
Look out, four droids inbound...
We've got to split them up.
Break left, fly through the guns on that tower.
Easy for you to say... why am I always the bait?
Don't worry. I'm coming around behind you.
Anakin, they're all over me!
Dead ahead! Closing... lock onto him, ARTOO...
(continuing, laughs) We got him, ARTOO!
I copy, ARTOO.
I'm going down on the deck.
Good idea... I need some room to maneuver.
(continuing) Cut right. Do you hear me?! Cut right. Don't let him get a handle on you. Come on, ARTOO, lock on! Lock on!
Hurry up! I don't like this!
(continuing) Ouch!
(continuing) Don't even try to fix it, Arfour. I've shut it down.
We're locked on... we've got him...
(continuing) Yeah! We got him... good going, ARTOO.
Next time you're the bait... Now let's find the Command Ship and get on with it...
Lock onto them, ARTOO. Master, General Grievous's ship is directly ahead.
(continuing) The one crawling with vulture droids.
I see it. Oh, this is going to be easy.
Come on, Master.
Not this time. There's too much at stake. We need help. Odd Ball, do you copy?
(OS) Copy, Red Leader.
Mark my position and form your squad up behind me...
We're on your tail, General Kenobi. Set S-foils in attack position.
This is where the fun begins. Ten Vulture Droids straight ahead, coming down the left side.
Add five Tri-fighters on the right...
I'm going head to head. See you.
Take it easy, Anakin.
I'm on your right, Red Leader.
Incoming!!
Five more on the right!
Here we go.
I'm going high and right.
Hang on. There are four more of them.
Stay with me... swing back and right... help me engage. Back off... Let them pass between us.
I'm coming around. I'm coming around on your tail.
All right, engage... and hurry. These droids are all over me like a rash.
CHIRPS.
BEEPS frantically
How many back there. ARTOO? Three... (continuing) Four... that's not good.
Anakin, you have four on your tail.
I know. I know!
Four more closing from your left.
I know. I know!
Break right and go high.
I'm going low and left.
(to himself) He still has much to learn.
Hang on, ARTOO. Obi-Wan, do you copy? I'm going to pull them through the needle...
"Too dangerous. First Jedi rule: ""Survive."""
Sorry, no choice. Come down here and thin them out a little.
Just keep me steady... hold on... not yet... now break left.
(continuing) You'll never get through there, Anakin. It's too tight.
Easy, ARTOO... we've done this before.
Use the Force, think yourself through, the ship will follow.
Wrong thought, ARTOO.
(continuing) I'm through.
There are too many of them.
I'm on your wing. Break left. Break left. They're all over me. Get them off my...
I'm going to go help them out!
No, no! They are doing their job so we can do ours. Head for the Command Ship!
Missiles! Pull up!
They overshot us...
They're coming around!
All right, Arfour. No, no. Nothing too fancy.
Surge all power units. ARTOO! Stand by the reverse thrusters.
We got 'em. ARTOO!
Flying is for droids.
(continuing) I'm hit! Anakin?
I see them... Buzz Droids.
Arfour, be careful. You have one...
Oh dear. They're shutting down all the controls.
Move to the right so I can get a clear shot at them.
The mission. Get to the Command Ship. Get the Chancellor! I'm running out of tricks here.
(continuing) In the name of...
Steady... steady...
Anakin, hold your fire... hold your fire. You're not helping here.
I agree, bad idea. Swing right... ease over... steady...
Wait... wait... I can't see a thing! My cockpit's fogging. They're all over me, Anakin.
Move to the right.
Hold on, Anakin. You're going to get us both killed! Get out of here. There's nothing more you can do.
I'm not leaving without you, Master.
Blast it... I can't see... my controls are gone.
Get 'em, ARTOO. Watch out!
ARTOO, hit the buzz droid's center eye.
Yeah, you got him!
Great, ARTOO.
Stay on my wing... the General's Command Ship is dead ahead. Easy... pull up... Head for the hangar.
Have you noticed the shields are still up?
Oh?!? Sorry, Master.
Oh, I have a bad feeling about this.
ARTOO, locate the Chancellor.
Tap into the ship's computers.
The Chancellor's signal is coming from right there. The observation platform at the top of that spire.
I sense Count Dooku...
I sense a trap.
Next move?
Spring the trap.
ARTOO, go back. I need you to stay with the ship.
Here, take this, and wait for orders.
What's the situation, Captain?
TWO Jedi have landed in the main hangar bay.
Just as Count Dooku predicted.
General Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker. We've been waiting for you.
We are here to relieve you of Chancellor Palpatine, not join him.
Anakin...
Ready.
 fuel. The slightest charge from our sabers will send this ship into oblivion. That's why they've stopped shooting.
Well then, we're safe for the time being.
Your idea of safe is not the same as mine.
They're sealing this section off.
Six droids coming our way!
Keep moving. There must be vents... This way.
We'll never get through that. It's too small!
I found our escape vent.
Anakin, this is no time for jokes. We're in serious trouble here.
Only in your mind. My Master. Look, no structure...
Here's a way out.
That won't hold when the fuel hits those power dischargers.
The blast will break the hull. This side's pressurized.
You still have much to learn, Anakin.
I have a bad feeling about this.
All right, you win. I have much to learn. Let's go!
Destroyers!!
Drop your weapons! I said drop 'em.
Did you press the stop button?
No, did you?
No!
Well, there's more than one way out of here.
We don't want to get out, we want to get moving. ARTOO... ARTOO. Do you copy? Activate elevator... (looks at control panel)... 31174...
What's that?
Get back to work. It's nothing.
ARTOO?
(continuing) Always on the move.
(OS) ARTOO, switch on the comlink. ARTOO, do you hear me? ARTOO, we gave you a job to do! ARTOO.
Stop, stop! ARTOO, we need to be going up.
Hands up, Jedi! Don't move.
 Roger, roger.
There it is again.
(OS) ARTOO, do you copy? ARTOO, do you hear me? ARTOO, we need to be going up, not down.
Stop. ARTOO! We need to go up! Stop, stop!
Hey you!
Now, that's better...
You stupid little astro droid!
Oh, it's you...
What was that all about?
Well, ARTOO has been...
No loose wire jokes... He's doing the best he can.
Did I say anything?
He's trying!
I didn't say anything!
(bows) Chancellor.
Are you all right?
(quietly) Count Dooku.
(quietly to Anakin) This time we will do it together.
I was about to say that.
Get help! You're no match for him. He's a Sith Lord.
Chancellor Palpatine, Sith Lords are our specialty.
Your swords, please, Master Jedi. We don't want to make a mess of things in front of the Chancellor.
You won't get away this time, Dooku.
I've been looking forward to this.
My powers have doubled since the last time we met, Count.
Good. Twice the pride, double the fall.
(continuing) Your moves are clumsy, Kenobi... too predictable. You'll have to do better.
(continuing) I sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate, you have anger, but you dont use them.
Good, Anakin, good. I knew you could do it. Kill him. Kill him now!
I shouldn't...
Do it!!
... I couldn't stop myself.
You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.
Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner.
(continuing) I shouldn't have done that, Chancellor. It's not the Jedi way.
It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge. It wasn't the first time, Anakin. Remember what you told me about your mother and the Sand People. Now, we must leave before more security droids arrive.
(continuing) Anakin, there is no time. We must get off the ship before it's too late.
He seems to be all right. No broken bones, breathing's all right.
Leave him, or we'll never make it.
His fate will be the same as ours.
Prepare for attack.
All batteries fire! Fire!
The elevator's not working, (into his comlink) ARTOO...
(continuing)... Activate Elevator 3224.
(continuing) ARTOO... do you copy? ARTOO, come in!
Reverse stabilizers.
Magnetize! Magnetize!
We can't wait. Come on, we have to be fast.
Fire the emergency booster engines.
Leveling out, sir.
Easy... . We're in a bit of a situation.
Did I miss something?
Hold on.
What is that?
(continuing) Oops.
ARTOO, ARTOO, shut down the elevator!
Too late! Jump!
Let's see if we can find something in the hangar bay that's still flyable. Come on.
ARTOO, get down here. ARTOO, do you copy?
None of those ships will get us anywhere.
I agree.
What are we going to do?
I don't know.
Don't look at me. I don't know.
Here, Chancellor, lock this around your waist, and hold on.
We'll head toward the bridge and see if we can find an escape pod.
Well, that was close.
General, we found the Jedi. They're in hallway 328.
Activate ray shields.
Ray shields!
Wait a minute, how'd this happen! We're smarter than this.
Apparently not, Master. This is the oldest trap in the book... Well... I was distracted.
Oh, so all of a sudden it's my fault.
You're the Master. I'm just a hero.
I'm open to suggestions here.
Why don't we let them take us to General Grievous. Perhaps with Count Dooku's demise, we can negotiate our release.
I say... patience.
Patience! That's your plan, is it?
Yes, ARTOO will be along in a few moments and he'll release the ray shields...
(continuing) See! No problem.
Don't move, dummy. Ouch! Zap this.
Do you have a plan B?
Oh yes. General Kenobi, the Negotiator. We've been waiting for you. That wasn't much of a rescue.
That depends upon your point of view. Hah!
And Anakin Skywalker... I was expecting someone with your reputation to be a little older.
General Grievous... Supreme Commander of the Droid Armies. You're shorter than I expected.
Ahhhh, Jedi scum...
Anakin, try not to upset him. We have a job to do.
Your lightsabers will make a fine addition to my collection.
Not this time. And this time you won't escape.
ARTOO.
Crush them! Make them suffer!
Stay and watch your stations.
Sir, we are falling out of orbit. All aft control cells are dead.
Stay on course... Don't bother with them. Keep the ship in orbit.
You lose, General Kenobi.
The ship is breaking up!
We've run out of time.
The hull is burning up!
Time to abandon ship.
All the escape pods have been launched.
Grievous. Can you fly a cruiser like this?
You mean, do I know how to land what's left of this thing?
Well?
Under the circumstances, I'd say the ability to pilot this thing is irrelevant. Strap yourselves in.
Steady... Attitude... eighteen degrees.
Pressure rising. We've got to slow this wreck down. Open all hatches, extend all flaps, and drag fins.
Temp steady. Hatches open, flaps extended, drag fins...
We lost something.
Not to worry, we're still flying half the ship.
Now we're really picking up speed... I'm going to shift a few degrees and see if I can slow us down.
Careful... we're heating up-twelve thousand... thirteen thousand...
What's our speed?
Eight plus sixty-forty. Eight plus sixty-twenty. Eight plus sixty. Temp ten thousand, nine thousand... we're in the atmosphere...
Grab that... Keep us level.
Steady. Steady.
Easy, ARTOO. Hang on, this may get a little rough. We lost our heat shields.
Five thousand. Three thousand... two thousand. Fireships on the left and the right.
We'll take you in.
Copy that. Landing strip's straight ahead.
We're coming in too hot.
Easy-easy.
Another happy landing.
(to Obi-Wan) Are you coming, Master?
Oh no. I'm not brave enough for politics. I have to report to the Council. Besides, someone needs to be the poster boy.
Hold on, this whole operation was your idea. You planned it. You led the rescue operation. You have to be the one to take the bows this time.
Sorry, old friend. Let us not forget that you rescued me from the Buzz Droids. And you killed Count Dooku. And you rescued the Chancellor, carrying me unconscious on your back, and you managed to land that bucket of bolts safely...
All because of your training, Master. You deserve all those speeches of your greatness.
... the endless speeches... Anakin, let's be fair. Today, you are the hero and you deserve your glorious day with the politicians.
All right. But you owe me... and not for saving your skin for the tenth time...
Ninth time... that business on Cato Nemoidia doesn't count. I'll see you at the briefing.
Chancellor Palpatine, what a welcome sight! Are you all right?
Yes, thanks to your two Jedi Knights. They killed Count Dooku, but General Grievous has escaped once again.
General Grievous will run and hide as he always does. He is a coward.
That maybe true, but with Count Dooku dead, he is the leader of the Droid Army, and I assure you, the Senate will vote to continue the war as long as Grievous is alive.
Then the Jedi Council will make finding Grievous our highest priority.
Skywalker, the Republic cannot praise you enough.
Thank you, Senator Organa. The kidnapping was a bold move by the Separatists, but it was a mistake that Obi-Wan and I were able to take advantage of.
It couldn't possibly be as bad as all that.
(continuing) Well, there, I agree with you. In fact, I could do with a tune-up myself.
The end of Count Dooku will surely bring an end to this war, and an end to the Chancellor's draconian security measures.
I wish that were so, but the fighting is going to continue until General Grievous is spare parts... The Chancellor is very clear about that.
I'll do everything I can with the Senate.
Excuse me.
Certainly.
Oh, Anakin! Thank goodness, you're back.
I missed you, Padme. I've missed you so.
There were whispers... that you'd been killed. I've been living with unbearable dread.
I'm back, I'm all right. It feels like we've been apart for a lifetime. And it might have been... If the Chancellor hadn't been kidnapped. I don't think they would have ever brought us back from the Outer Rim sieges.
Wait, not here...
Yes, here! I'm tired of all this deception. I don't care if they know we're married.
Anakin, don't say things like that. You're important to the Republic... to ending this war. I love you more than anything, but I won't let you give up your life as a Jedi for me...
I've given my life to the Jedi order, but I'd only give up my life, for you.
(playfully) I wouldn't like that. I wouldn't like that one bit. Patience, my handsome Jedi... Come to me later.
Are you all right? You're trembling. What's going on?
I'm just excited to see you.
That's not it. I sense more... what is it?
Nothing... nothing...
You're frightened. (a little angry) Tell me what's going on!
You've been gone five months... it's been very hard for me. I've never felt so alone. There's...
... Is there someone else?
(peeved, angry) No! Why do you think that? Your jealousy upsets me so much, Anakin. I do nothing to betray you, yet you still don't trust me. Nothing has changed.
(sheepish) I'm afraid of losing you, Padme... that's all.
I will never stop loving you, Anakin. My only fear is losing you.
It's just that I've never seen you like this...
Something wonderful has happened.
(continuing) I'm... Annie, I'm pregnant.
That's... that's wonderful.
What are we going to do?
We're not going to worry about anything right now, all right? This is a happy moment. The happiest moment of my life.
The planet is secure, sir. The population is under control.
Good. Where is the Separatist Council?
This way, sir...
Yes, Lord Sidious.
General Grievous, I suggest you move the Separatist leaders to Mustafar.
It will be done, My Lord.
The end of the war is near, General, and I promise you, victory is assured.
But the loss of Count Dooku?
His death was a necessary loss, which will ensure our victory. Soon I will have a new apprentice... one far younger and more powerful than Lord Tyranus.
.... every second I was thinking of you. Protecting the endless, nameless Outer Rim settlements became a torture... the battles were easy, the longing became unbearable... I've never been so happy as I am at this moment.
Annie, I want to have our baby back home on Naboo. We could go to the lake country where no one would know... where we would be safe. I could go early-and fix up the baby's room. I know the perfect spot, right by the gardens.
You are so beautiful!
It's only because I'm so in love...
No, it's because I'm so in love with you.
So love has blinded you?
Well, that's not exactly what I meant...
But it's probably true!
I haven't laughed in so long...
Neither have I.
Anakin, help me! Help, Anakin! Anakin, I love you. I love you.
Anakin??
What's bothering you?
Nothing...
(continuing) I remember when I gave this to you.
Anakin, how long is it going to take for us to be honest with each other?
It was a dream.
Bad?
Like the ones I used to have about my mother just before she died.
And?
It was about you.
Tell me.
It was only a dream.
(continuing) You die in childbirth...
And the baby?
I don't know.
It was only a dream.
... I won't let this one become real, Padme.
Anakin, this baby will change our lives. I doubt the Queen will continue to allow me to serve in the Senate, and if the Council discovers you are the father, you will be expelled from the Jedi Order.
I know .
Anakin, do you think Obi-Wan might be able to help us?
(suspicious) Have you told him anything?
No, but he's your mentor, your best friend... he must suspect something.
He's been a father to me, but he's still on the Council. Don't tell him anything!
I won't, Anakin.
I don't need his help... Our baby is a blessing, not a problem.
Premonitions... premonitions... Hmmmm... these visions you have...
They are of pain, suffering, death...
Yourself you speak of, or someone you know?
Someone...
... close to you?
Yes.
Careful you must be when sensing the future, Anakin. The fear of loss is a path to the dark side.
I won't let these visions come true, Master Yoda.
Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them, do not. Miss them, do not. Attachment leads to jealousy. The shadow of greed, that is.
What must I do, Master Yoda?
Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose.
You missed the report on the Outer Rim sieges.
I'm sorry, I was held up. I have no excuse.
In short, they are going very well. Saleucami has fallen, and Master Vos has moved his troops to Boz Pity.
What's wrong then?
The Senate is expected to vote more executive powers to the Chancellor today.
Well, that can only mean less deliberating and more action. Is that bad? It will make it easier for us to end this war.
Anakin, be careful of your friend Palpatine.
Be careful of what?
He has requested your presence.
What for?
He would not say.
He didn't inform the Jedi Council? That's unusual, isn't it?
All of this is unusual, and it's making me feel uneasy. You're probably aware that relations between the Council and the Chancellor are stressed.
I know the Council has grown wary of the Chancellor's power, mine also for that matter. Aren't we all working together to save the Republic? Why all this distrust?
The Force grows dark, Anakin, and we are all affected by it. Be wary of your feelings.
Anakin, this afternoon the Senate is going to call on me to take direct control of the Jedi Council.
The Jedi will no longer report to the Senate?
They will report to me... personally. The Senate is too unfocused to conduct a war. This will bring a quick end to things.
I agree, but the Jedi Council may not see it that way.
There are times when we must all endure adjustments to the constitution in the name of security.
With all due respect, sir, the Council is in no mood for more constitutional amendments.
Thank you, my friend, but in this case I have no choice... this war must be won.
Everyone will agree on that.
Anakin, I've known you since you were a small boy. I have advised you over the years when I could... I am very proud of your accomplishments. You have won many battles the Jedi Council thought were lost... and you saved my life. I hope you trust me, Anakin.
Of course.
I need your help, son.
What do you mean?
I fear the Jedi. The Council keeps pushing for more control. They're shrouded in secrecy and obsessed with maintaining their autonomy... ideals. I find simply incomprehensible in a democracy.
I can assure you that the Jedi are dedicated to the values of the Republic, sir.
Nevertheless, their actions will speak more loudly than their words. I'm depending on you.
For what? I don't understand.
To be the eyes, ears, and voice of the Republic...
(continuing) Anakin... I'm appointing you to be my personal representative on the Jedi Council.
Me? A Master? I am overwhelmed, sir, but the Council elects its own members. They will never accept this.
I think they will... they need you more than you know.
Now that he has control of the Jedi Council, the Chancellor has appointed Governors to oversee all star systems in the Republic.
When did this happen?
The decree was posted this morning.
Do you think he will dismantle the Senate?
Why bother? As a practical matter, the Senate no longer exists.
The constitution is in shreds. Amendment after amendment... executive directives, sometimes a dozen in one day.
We can't let a thousand years of democracy disappear without a fight.
What are you suggesting?
I apologize. I didn't mean to sound like a Separatist.
We are not Separatists trying to leave the Republic. We are loyalists, trying to preserve democracy in the Republic.
It has become increasingly clear to many of us that the Chancellor has become an enemy of democracy.
I can't believe it has come to this! Chancellor Palpatine is one of my oldest advisors. He served as my Ambassador when I was Queen.
Senator, I fear you underestimate the amount of corruption that has taken hold in the Senate.
The Chancellor has played the Senators well. They know where the power lies, and they will do whatever it takes to share in it. Palpatine has become a dictator and we have helped him to do it.
We can't sit around debating any longer, we have decided to do what we can to stop it. Senator Mon Mothma and I are putting together an organization...
Say no more. Senator Organa. I understand. At this point, it's better to leave some things unsaid.
Yes. I agree and we must not discuss this with anyone, without everyone in this group agreeing.
That means those closest to you... even family... no one can be told.
Agreed.
Anakin Skywalker, we have approved your appointment to the Council as the Chancellor's personal representative.
I will do my best to uphold the principles of the Jedi Order.
Allow this appointment lightly, the Council does not. Disturbing is this move by Chancellor Palpatine.
I understand.
You are on this Council, but we do not grant you the rank of Master.
What? ! How can you do this?? This is outrageous, it's unfair... I'm more powerful than any of you. How can you be on the Council and not be a Master?
Take a seat, young Skywalker.
Forgive me, Master.
We have surveyed all systems in the Republic, and have found no sign of General Grievous.
Hiding in the Outer Rim, Grievous is. The outlying systems, you must sweep.
It may take some time... we do not have many ships to spare.
We cannot take ships from the front line.
And yet, it would be fatal for us to allow the droid armies to regroup.
Master Kenobi, our spies contact, you must, and then wait.
What about the droid attack on the WOOKIES?
It is critical we send an attack group there, immediately!
He's right, that is a system we cannot afford to lose. It's the main navigation route for the southwestern quadrant.
I know that system well. It would take us little time to drive the droids off that planet.
Skywalker, your assignment is here with the Chancellor, and Kenobi must find General Grievous.
Go, I will. Good relations with the WOOKIES, I have.
It is settled then. Yoda will take a battalion of clones to reinforce the WOOKIES on Kashyyyk. May the Force be with us all.
What kind of nonsense is this, put me on the Council and not make me a Master!?? That's never been done in the history of the Jedi. It's insulting!
Calm down, Anakin. You have been given a great honor. To be on the Council at your age... It's never happened before. Listen to me, Anakin. The fact of the matter is you're too close to the Chancellor. The Council doesn't like it when he interferes in Jedi affairs.
I swear to you, I didn't ask to be put on the Council...
But it's what you wanted! Your friendship with Chancellor Palpatine seems to have paid off.
That has nothing to do with this.
Anakin, regardless of how it happened, you find yourself in a delicate situation.
You mean divided loyalties.
I warned you there was tension between the Council and the Chancellor. I was very clear. Why didn't you listen? You walked right into it.
The Council is upset I'm the youngest to ever serve.
No, it is not. Anakin, I worry when you speak of jealousy and pride. Those are not Jedi thoughts. They're dangerous, dark thoughts.
Master, you of all people should have confidence in my abilities. I know where my loyalties lie.
I hope so...
I sense there's more to this talk than you're saying.
Anakin, the only reason the Council has approved your appointment is because the Chancellor trusts you.
And?
Anakin, look, I am on your side. I didn't want to see you put in this situation.
What situation?
(takes a deep breath) The Council wants you to report on all of the Chancellor's dealings. They want to know what he's up to.
They want me to spy on the Chancellor? That's treason!
We are at war, Anakin. The Jedi Council is sworn to uphold the principles of the Republic, even if the Chancellor does not.
Why didn't the Council give me this assignment when we were in session?
This assignment is not to be on record. The Council asked me to approach you on this personally.
The Chancellor is not a bad man, Obi-Wan. He befriended me. He's watched out for me ever since I arrived here.
That is why you must help us, Anakin. Our allegiance is to the Senate, not to its leader who has managed to stay in office long after his term has expired.
Master, the Senate demanded that he stay longer.
Yes, but use your feelings, Anakin. Something is out of place.
You're asking me to do something against the Jedi Code. Against the Republic. Against a mentor... and a friend. That's what's out of place here. Why are you asking this of me?
The Council is asking you.
Anakin did not take to his assignment with much enthusiasm.
Too much under the sway of the Chancellor, he is. Much anger there is in him. Too much pride in his powers.
It's very dangerous, putting them together. I don't think the boy can handle it. I don't trust him.
He'll be all right. I trust him with my life.
I wish I did.
With all due respect, Master, is he not the Chosen One? Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the Force?
So the prophecy says.
A prophecy... that misread could have been.
He will not let me down. He never has.
I hope right you are. And now destroy the Droid armies on Kashyyyk, I will. May the Force be with you.
Thank you, Captain.
Rest well. My Lady.
I'll be up in a while.
Yes, my lady.
Is there anything I might do for you, my lady?
Yes, make sure all the security droids are working. Thank you, Threepio.
Beautiful, isn't it?
You startled me.
How are you feeling?
He keeps kicking.
He?! Why do you think it's a boy?
(laughs) My motherly intuition.
Whoa! With a kick that strong, it's got to be a girl.
I heard about your appointment. Anakin. I'm so proud of you.
I may be on the Council, but... they refused to accept me as a Jedi Master.
Patience. In time, they will recognize your skills.
They still treat me as if I were a Padawan learner... they fear my power, that's the problem.
Anakin...
Sometimes, I wonder what's happening to the Jedi Order... I think this war is destroying the principles of the Republic.
Have you ever considered that we may be on the wrong side?
(suspicious) What do you mean?
What if the democracy we thought we were serving no longer exists, and the Republic has become the very evil we have been fighting to destroy?
I don't believe that. And you're sounding like a Separatist!
Anakin, this war represents a failure to listen... Now, you're closer to the Chancellor than anyone. Please, please ask him to stop the fighting and let diplomacy resume.
(growing angry) Don't ask me to do that, Padme. Make a motion in the Senate, where that kind of a request belongs. I'm not your errand boy. I'm not anyone's errand boy!
What is it?
Nothing.
Don't do this... don't shut me out. Let me help you.
You can't help me... I'm trying to help you.
(continuing) I sense... there are things you are not telling me.
I sense there are things you are not telling me.
(continuing) Hold me... like you did by the lake on Naboo, so long ago... when there was nothing but our love... No politics, no plotting... no war.
You wanted to see me, Chancellor.
Yes, Anakin! Come closer. I have good news. Our Clone Intelligence Units have discovered the location of General Grievous. He is hiding in the Utapau system.
At last, we'll be able to capture that monster and end this war.
I would worry about the collective wisdom of the Council if they didn't select you for this assignment. You are the best choice by far  but, they can't always be trusted to do the right thing.
They try.
Sit down, (to his aides) Leave us.
(continuing) Anakin, you know I'm not able to rely on the Jedi Council. If they haven't included you in their plot, they soon will.
I'm not sure I understand.
You must sense what I have come to suspect... the Jedi Council want control of the Republic... they're planning to betray me.
I don't think...
Anakin, search your feelings. You know, don't you?
I know they don't trust you...
Or the Senate... or the Republic... or democracy for that matter.
I have to admit my trust in them has been shaken.
Why? They asked you to do something that made you feel dishonest, didn't they?
(continuing) They asked you to spy on me, didn't they?
I don't know... I don't know what to say.
"Remember back to your early teachings. Anakin. ""All those who gain power are afraid to lose it."" Even the Jedi."
The Jedi use their power for good.
Good is a point of view, Anakin. And the Jedi point of view is not the only valid one. The Dark Lords of the Sith believe in security and justice also, yet they are considered by the Jedi to be...
... evil.
... from a Jedi's point of view. The Sith and the Jedi are similar in almost every way, including their quest for greater power. The difference between the two is the Sith are not afraid of the dark side of the Force. That is why they are more powerful.
The Sith rely on their passion for their strength. They think inward, only about themselves.
And the Jedi don't?
The Jedi are selfless... they only care about others.
Or so you've been trained to believe. Why is it, then, that they have asked you to do something you feel is wrong?
I'm not sure it's wrong.
Have they asked you to betray the Jedi code? The Constitution? A friendship? Your own values? Think. Consider their motives. Keep your mind clear of assumptions. The fear of losing power is a weakness of both the Jedi and the Sith.
"(continuing) Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis ""the wise""?"
No.
I thought not. It's not a story the Jedi would tell you. It's a Sith legend. Darth Plagueis was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so wise he could use the Force to influence the midi-chlorians to create life... He had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even keep the ones he cared about from dying.
He could actually save people from death?
The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.
What happened to him?
He became so powerful... the only thing he was afraid of was losing his power, which eventually, of course, he did. Unfortunately, he taught his apprentice everything he knew, then his apprentice killed him in his sleep. (smiles) Plagueis never saw it coming. It's ironic he could save others from death, but not himself.
Is it possible to learn this power?
Not from a Jedi.
(holo) Palpatine thinks General Grievous is on Utapau. We have had no reports of this from our agents.
(holo) How could the Chancellor have come by this information and we know nothing about it? We have had contact with Baron Papanoida and he said no one was there.
A partial message was intercepted in a diplomatic packet from the Chairman of Utapau.
Act on this, we must. The capture of General Grievous will end this war. Quickly and decisively we should proceed.
Does everyone agree?
The Chancellor has requested that I lead the campaign.
(a little peeved) The Council will make up its own mind who is to go, not the Chancellor.
Yes, this decision is ours to make.
A Master is needed, with more experience.
Given our resources, I recommend we send only one Jedi... Master Kenobi.
He was not so successful the last time he met Grievous.
(continuing) No offense, my Master, but I'm only stating a fact.
Oh no, you're quite right, but I do have the most experience with his ways of combat.
Obi-Wan, my choice is.
I concur. Master Kenobi should go.
I agree.
Very well. Council is adjourned.
(continuing) Obi-Wan, prepare two clone brigades as quickly as you can. If this report is true, there's no telling how many battle droids he may have with him.
The droids have started up their main power generators.
Then now the time is, Commander.
Yes, sir.
Has Anakin been to see you?
Several times... I was so happy to hear he was accepted on the Jedi Council.
I know... he deserves it. He is impatient, strong willed, very opinionated, but truly gifted.
You're not just here to say hello. Something is wrong, isn't it?
You should be a Jedi, Padme.
You're not very good at hiding your feelings.
It's Anakin... He's becoming moody and detached. He's been put in a difficult position as the Chancellor's representative... but I think it's more than that. I was hoping he may have talked to you.
Why would he talk to me about his work?
Neither of you is very good at hiding your feelings either.
Don't give me that look.
I know how he feels about you.
(nervous) What did he say?
Nothing. He didn't have to.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I know you both too well. I can see you two are in love. Padme, I'm worried about him.
(continuing) I fear your relationship has confused him. He's changed considerably since we returned...
(continuing) Padme, I'm not telling the Council about any of this. I... I hope I didn't upset you. We're all friends, I care about both of you...
Thank you, Obi-Wan.
Please do what you can to help him.
We cannot let this turn into another war.
Absolutely, that is the last thing we want.
We are hoping to form an alliance in the Senate to stop the Chancellor from further subverting the constitution, that's all.
I know a Jedi I feel it would be wise to consult.
That would be dangerous.
We don't know where the Jedi stand in all this.
I only wish to discuss this with one... one I trust.
Going against the Chancellor without the support of the Jedi is risky.
The Jedi aren't any happier with the situation than we are...
Patience, Senator.
We have so many Senators on our side, surely that will pursuade the Chancellor.
"When you present the ""petition of the two thousand"" to the Chancellor, things may change."
Let us see what we can accomplish in the Senate, before we include the Jedi.
You're going to need me on this one, Master.
Oh, I agree. However it may turn out just to be a wild bantha chase.
Master!
(continuing) Master, I've disappointed you. I have not been very appreciative of your training... I have been arrogant and I apologize... I've just been so frustrated with the Council. Your friendship means everything to me.
You are strong and wise, Anakin, and I am very proud of you. I have trained you since you were a small boy. I have taught you everything I know. And you have become a far greater Jedi than I could ever hope to be, and you have saved my life more times than I can remember. But be patient, Anakin. It won't be long before the Council makes you a Jedi Master.
(continuing) Don't worry. I have enough clones with me to take three systems the size of Utapau. I think I'll be able to handle the situation... even without your help.
Well, there's always a first time.
Obi-Wan, may the Force be with you.
Good-bye, old friend. May the Force be with you.
Fortunately, most of the cities are concentrated on this small continent here... on the far side.
I'll keep them distracted until you get there. Just don't take too long.
Come on, boss, when have I ever let you down?
(laughing) Cato Nemoidia... for starters.
That was Anakin who was late. I believe.
Very well, the burden is on me not to destroy all the droids before you get there.
I'm counting on you.
Well, Anakin, did you see your friend off?
He will soon have Grievous's head.
We can only hope the Council didn't make a mistake.
The Council was very sure in its decision.
Helloo Annie. Good en to see yousa...
Hi, Jar Jar.
Oopsin da Chancellor!! So sorry, Your Highness, sir.
There are rumors in the Senate about Master Kenobi. Many believe he is not fit for this assignment.
Not fit? Why would anyone think that?
They say his mind has become fogged by the influence of a certain female Senator.
That's ridiculous. Who?!?
(slyly) No one knows who she is... only that she is a Senator.
That's impossible. I would know.
Sometimes the closest are the ones who cannot see.
(continuing) Idle Senate gossip is rarely true and never accurate. I'm sure your Master will do fine.
Save your energy.
I can't!
Don't give up, Padme. Don't give up...
I sense someone familiar... Obi-Wan's been here, hasn't he?
He came by this morning.
What did he want?
He's worried about you.
You told him about us, didn't you?
He's your best friend, Anakin. He says you're under a lot of stress.
And he's not?
You have been moody lately.
I'm not moody...
Anakin! Don't do this again.
I don't know... I feel... lost.
Lost? What do you mean? You're always so sure of yourself. I don't understand.
Obi-Wan and the Council don't trust me.
They trust you with their lives. Obi-Wan loves you as a son.
Something's happening... I'm not the Jedi I should be. I am one of the most powerful Jedi, but I'm not satisfied... I want more, and I know I shouldn't.
You expect too much of yourself.
I have found a way to save you.
Save me?
From my nightmares.
Is that what's bothering you?
I won't lose you, Padme.
I'm not going to die in childbirth, Annie. I promise you.
No, I promise you! I am becoming so powerful with my new knowledge of the Force, I will be able to keep you from dying.
You don't need more power, Anakin. I believe you can protect me against anything, just as you are.
Greetings, young Jedi. What brings you to our remote sanctuary?
Unfortunately, the war.
There is no war here unless you've brought it with you.
With your kind permission, I should like some fuel and to use your city as a base as I search nearby systems for General Grievous.
He is here! We are being held hostage. They are watching us.
I understand.
The tenth level... thousands of Battle Droids...
Tell your people to take shelter. If you have warriors, now is the time.
(continuing) Geenine, take the Fighter back to the ship. I'm staying here. Tell Cody I've made contact.
I told you, all he wanted was fuel.
What was his name?
He didn't say.
I need transportation.
(subtitled, in native tongue) You need transportation.
Get it for me.
(subtitled, in native tongue) I will get it for you.
This one.
Boga. She answers to Boga.
Good girl, Boga.
It won't be long before the armies of the Republic track us here. I am sending you to the Mustafar system in the Outer Rim. It is a volcanic planet which generates a great deal of scanning interference. You will be safe there.
Safe? Chancellor Palpatine managed to escape your grip, General, without Count Dooku. I have doubts about your ability to keep us safe.
Be thankful, Viceroy, you have not found yourself in my grip... Your ship is waiting.
Hello, there!
General Kenobi, you are a bold one. I find your behavior bewildering... Surely you realize you're doomed, (to droids) Kill him!
Enough of this.
Back away. I will deal with this Jedi slime myself.
Your move.
You fool. I have been trained in your Jedi arts by Count Dooku himself. Attack, Kenobi.
You forget I trained the Jedi that defeated Count Dooku!
I may not defeat your droids, but my troops certainly will.
Army or not, you must realize you are doomed.
I don't think so.
I understand your reservations completely, Senator, and I assure you the appointment of Governors will in no way compete with the duties of the Senate.
May I take it then, that there will be no further amendments to the Constitution?
I want this terrible conflict to end as much as you do, My Lady, and when it does I guarantee an immediate return to democracy...
You are pursuing a diplomatic solution to the war, then.
You must trust me to do the right things, Senator. That is why I am here.
But surely...
I have said I will do what is right, that should be enough for your... committee.
"On behalf of the ""delegation of two thousand,"" I thank you, Chancellor."
I thank you for bringing this to my attention, Senator.
(continuing) Their sincerity is to be admired, although I sense there is more to their request than they are telling us.
What do you mean?
They are not to be trusted.
Surely Senator Amidala can be trusted...
These are unstable times for the Republic, Anakin. Some see instability as an opportunity. Senator Amidala is hiding something. I can see it in her eyes.
I'm sure you're mistaken.
I'm surprised your Jedi insights are not more sensitive to such things.
I simply don't sense betrayal in Senator Amidala.
Yes, you do, but you don't seem to want to admit it. There is much conflict in you, Anakin.
Master Windu, may I interrupt? General Kenobi has made contact with General Grievous, and we have begun our attack.
Thank you, Commander. Anakin, deliver this report to the Chancellor. His reaction will give us a clue to his intentions.
Yes, Master.
I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor.
If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from office.
That could be a dangerous move... the Jedi Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to secure a peaceful transition...
... and replace the Congress with Senators who are not filled with greed and corruption.
To a dark place this line of thought will carry us. Hmmmmm... . great care we must take.
Chancellor, we have just received a report from Master Kenobi. He has engaged General Grievous.
We can only hope that Master Kenobi is up to the challenge.
I should be there with him.
It is upsetting to me to see that the Council doesn't seem to fully appreciate your talents. Don't you wonder why they won't make you a Jedi Master?
I wish I knew. More and more I get the feeling that I am being excluded from the Council. I know there are things about the Force that they are not telling me.
They don't trust you, Anakin. They see your future. They know your power will be too strong to control. Anakin, you must break through the fog of lies the Jedi have created around you. Let me help you to know the subtleties of the Force.
How do you know the ways of the Force?
My mentor taught me everything about the Force... even the nature of the dark side.
You know the dark side?!?
Anakin, if one is to understand the great mystery, one must study all its aspects, not just the dogmatic, narrow view of the Jedi. If you wish to become a complete and wise leader, you must embrace a larger view of the Force. Be careful of the Jedi, Anakin. (pausing) They fear you. In time they will destroy you. Let me train you.
I won't be a pawn in your political game. The Jedi are my family.
Only through me can you achieve a power greater than any Jedi. Learn to know the dark side of the Force, Anakin, and you will be able to save your wife from certain death.
What did you say?
Use my knowledge, I beg you...
You're a Sith Lord!
I know what has been troubling you... Listen to me. Don't continue to be a pawn of the Jedi Council! Ever since I've known you, you've been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary Jedi... a life of significance, of conscience.
You're wrong!
Are you going to kill me?
I would certainly like to.
I know you would. I can feel your anger. It gives you focus, makes you stronger.
I am going to turn you over to the Jedi Council.
Of course you should. But you're not sure of their intentions, are you? What if I am right and they are plotting to take over the Republic?
I will quickly discover the truth of all this.
You have great wisdom, Anakin. Know the power of the dark side. The power to save Padme.
(continuing) I am not going anywhere. You have time to decide my fate. Perhaps you'll reconsider and help me rule the galaxy for the good of all...
Prepare to move out of orbit. I will be up in a few moments.
So uncivilized...
Master Windu, I must talk to you.
What is it, Skywalker? We are in a hurry. We have just received word that Obi-Wan has destroyed General Grievous. We are on our way to make sure the Chancellor returns emergency powers back to the Senate.
He won't give up his power. I've just learned a terrible truth. I think Chancellor Palpatine is a Sith Lord.
A Sith Lord?
Yes. The one we have been looking for.
How do you know this?
He knows the ways of the Force. He has been trained to use the dark side.
Are you sure?
Absolutely.
Then our worst fears have been realized. We must move quickly if the Jedi Order is to survive.
Master, the Chancellor is very powerful. You will need my help if you are going to arrest him.
For your own good, stay out of this affair. I sense a great deal of confusion in you, young Skywalker. There is much fear that clouds your judgment.
I must go, Master.
No. If what you told me is true, you will have gained my trust, but for now remain here.
Yes, Master.
Wait for us in the Council Chamber until we return.
Yes, Master.
(V.O.) You do know, don't you, if the Jedi destroy me, any chance of saving her will be lost.
I truly, deeply love you. Before I die. I want you to know.
My Lady, are you... . Are you all right?
I can't do this... I can't let her die.
Master Windu. I take it General Grievous has been destroyed then. I must say, you're here sooner than expected.
In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you are under arrest, Chancellor.
Are you threatening me, Master Jedi?
The Senate will decide your fate.
(burst of anger) I am the Senate!
Not yet!
It's treason, then.
You are under arrest, My Lord.
Anakin! I told you it would come to this. I was right. The Jedi are taking over.
You old fool. The oppression of the Sith will never return. Your plot to regain control of the Republic is over... you have lost...
No! No! You will die!
He is a traitor, Anakin.
He's the traitor. Stop him!
Come to your senses, boy. The Jedi are in revolt. They will betray you, just as they betrayed me.
Aarrrrggghhhhh...
You are not one of them, Anakin. Don't let him kill me.
Aarrrrggghhhhh...
I am your pathway to power. I have the power to save the one you love. You must choose. You must stop him.
Don't listen to him, Anakin.
Help me! Don't let him kill me. I can't hold on any longer. Ahhhhhhh... ahhhhhhh... ahhhhhhh...
I can't... I give up. Help me. I am weak... I am too weak. Don't kill me. I give up. I'm dying. I can't hold on any longer.
You Sith disease. I am going to end this once and for all.
You can't kill him, Master. He must stand trial.
He has too much control of the Senate and the Courts. He is too dangerous to be kept alive.
I'm too weak. Don't kill me. Please.
It is not the Jedi way...
(continuing) He must live...
Please don't, please don't...
I need him...
Please don't...
NO!!!
Power! Unlimited power!
What have I done?
You are fulfilling your destin, Anakin. Become my apprentice. Learn to use the dark side of the Force.
I will do whatever you ask.
Good.
Just help me save Padme's life. I can't live without her. I won't let her die. I want the power to stop death.
To cheat death is a power only one has achieved, but if we work together, I know we can discover the secret.
I pledge myself to your teachings. To the ways of the Sith.
Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. A powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as Darth... Vader.
Thank you. my Master.
Rise, Darth Vader.
Because the Council did not trust you, my young apprentice, I believe you are the only Jedi with no knowledge of this plot. When the Jedi learn what has transpired here, they will kill us, along with all the Senators.
I agree. The Jedi's next move will be against the Senate.
Every single Jedi, including your friend Obi-Wan Kenobi, is now an enemy of the Republic. You understand that, don't you?
I understand, Master.
"We must move quickly. The Jedi are relentless
What about the other Jedi spread across the galaxy?
Their betrayal will be dealt with. After you have killed all the Jedi in the Temple, go to the Mustafar system. Wipe out Viceroy Gunray and the other Separatist leaders. Once more, the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace.
Commander, contact your troops. Tell them to move to the higher levels.
Very good, sir.
(continuing) Oh, by the way, I think you'll be needing this.
Thank you, Cody, (smiling) Now let's get a move on. We've got a battle to win here.
Yes, sir!
Commander Cody, the time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.
It will be done, My Lord.
Blast him!
Commander 1138...
Yes, sir.
The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.
It will be done, My Lord.
Steady... . steady...
(continuing) Bly, do you think they're Droids?
No.
Execute Order Sixty-Six.
It will be done, My Lord.
There they are. Land on the nearest platform.
Yes, My Lord.
The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.
It will be done, My Lord.
Master Skywalker, there are too many of them. What are we going to do?
The Chancellor's office indicated Master Anakin returned to the Jedi Temple. Don't worry, My Lady. I am sure he will be all right.
What's going on here?!?
There's been a rebellion. Don't worry, sir, the situation is under control.
(continuing) I'm sorry, sir. No one is allowed entry.
(continuing) It's time for you to leave, sir.
And so it is.
Get him! Shoot him!
Everyone out of there!
Wookiee good... eat Wookiee. (crazy little laugh)
Did you find something?
It's nothing, nothing. (laughs)
It's nothing, nothing. All these WOOKIES are dead. Move to the east.
Yes, sir.
Right you are, Chewbacca. Faster that will be.
Stink, this mud does. A moment to bathe, give me.
(continuing) Not far, are we, from the emergency ship. Quickly...
Good-bye. Chewbacca and Tarfful, miss you I will. Good friends you are. For your help, much gratitude and respect, I have
Identification...
Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan.
Were you able to get hold of a Jedi homing beacon?
Yes, sir. We've encountered no opposition. The clones are still a bit confused. It appears no one is in command.
That will change soon. Hopefully we will be able to intercept a few Jedi before they walk into this catastrophe.
Did you find Kenobi?
No one could have survived that fall.
Start loading your men on the ship.
Yes, sir.
Emergency Code Nine Thirteen... I have no contact on any frequency. Are there any Jedi out there?... anywhere...
(hologram)... Kenobi...
(continuing) I've locked on. Repeat.
Master Kenobi??
Senator Organa! My Clone Troops turned on me... I need help.
We have just rescued Master Yoda. It appears this ambush has happened everywhere. We're sending you our coordinates.
My Lady, there's a Jedi fighter docking on the veranda.
Hush! Not so loud!
Are you all right? I heard there was an attack on the Jedi Temple... you can see the smoke from here.
I'm fine. I'm fine. I came to see if you and the baby are safe.
Captain Typho's here, we're safe. What's happening?
What is going on?
(continuing) You can't be anymore confused than I am.
The situation is not good. The Jedi have tried to overthrow the Republic...
I can't believe that!
I couldn't either at first, but it's true. I saw Master Windu attempt to assassinate the Chancellor myself.
Something important is going on! I heard a rumor they are going to banish all droids.
(continuing) Shhhhhh... not so loud.
(continuing) Whatever it is, we'll be the last to know.
Anakin, what are you going to do?
I will not betray the Republic... my loyalties lie with the Chancellor and with the Senate... and with you.
What about Obi-Wan?
I don't know... Many Jedi have been killed. We can only hope that he's remained loyal to the Chancellor.
How could this have happened?
The Republic is unstable, Padme. The Jedi aren't the only ones trying to take advantage of the situation. There are also traitors in the Senate.
What are you saying?
You need to distance yourself from your friends in the Senate. The Chancellor said they will be dealt with when this conflict is over.
What if they start an inquisition? I've opposed this war. What will you do if I become a suspect?
That won't happen. I won't let it.
Oh, Anakin, I'm afraid.
Have faith, my love. Everything will soon be set right. The Chancellor has given me a very important mission. The Separatists have gathered in the Mustafar system. I'm going there to end this war. Wait for me until I return... things will be different, I promise.
(continuing) Please, wait for me.
I will.
(to ARTOO) Well, he is under a lot of stress, ARTOO.
(continuing) Take care, my little friend.
(continuing) My Lady, is there anything I might do?
No thank you, Threepio.
A snack, perhaps?
No.
I feel so helpless.
You made it.
Master Kenobi, dark times are these. Good to see you. it is.
You were attacked by your Clones, also?
With the help of the WOOKIES, barely escape, I did.
How many other Jedi managed to survive?
Heard from no one, have we.
I saw thousands of troops attack the Jedi Temple. That's why I went looking for Yoda.
Have we had any contact from the Temple?
Received a coded retreat message, we have.
It requests all Jedi to return to the Temple. It says that the war is over...
Well, then we must go back! If there are other stragglers, they will fall into the trap and be killed.
It's too dangerous to return.
Suggest dismantling the coded signal, do you?
Yes, Master. There is too much at stake here, and we need a clearer picture of what has happened.
I agree. In a dark place we find ourselves... a little more knowledge might light our way.
The plan has gone as you had promised, My Lord.
You have done well, Viceroy. When my new apprentice, Darth Vader, arrives, he will take care of you.
We are receiving a message from the Chancellor's office, sir.
Send it through.
Yes, sir.
Senator Organa... the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic requests your presence at a special session of Congress.
Tell the Chancellor I will be there.
Very well. He will be expecting you.
It could be a trap.
No, I don't think so. The Chancellor will not be able to control the thousands of star systems without keeping the Senate intact.
If a special session of Congress there is, easier for us to enter the Jedi Temple it will be.
Welcome back, Senator. May I see your clearance?
Certainly.
Thank you, you may proceed. We will take custody of the Jedi.
It would be better if we stayed with the Senator.
It would be better if they stayed with you.
ARTOO... stay with the ship.
Welcome, Lord Vader. We've been expecting you.
There are several battalions of Clone Troopers on every level. Many are dressed as Jedi.
Dismantle the coded signal quickly. That group back there, soon discovered will be.
... and the Jedi Rebellion has been foiled.
I was held up. What's happening?
The Chancellor has been elaborating on a plot by the Jedi, to overthrow the Senate.
That's not true!
He's been presenting evidence all afternoon.
And the Senate will go along with it, just like they always do.
The remaining Jedi will be hunted down and defeated. (applause) Any collaborators will suffer the same fate. (applause) These have been trying times, but we have passed the test.
Not even the younglings survived.
Killed not by clones, this Padawan. By a lightsaber, he was.
...Who?? Who could have done this?
The attempt on my life has left me scarred and deformed, but I assure you my resolve has never been stronger.
The war is over. (applause) The Separatists have been defeated, (applause) and the Jedi rebellion has been foiled. We stand on the threshold of a new beginning.
Well, this is the moment we discover if he intends to return the Republic to a democracy.
In order to ensure our security and continuing stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire, for a safe and secure society which I assure you will last for ten thousand years.
(continuing) An empire that will continue to be ruled by this august body, and a sovereign ruler chosen for life...
(continuing) An empire ruled by the majority... Ruled by a new constitution...
So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause...
We cannot let this happen.
Not now! There will be a time.
The war is over. Lord Sidious promised us peace... we only want...
I've recalibrated the code warning all surviving Jedi to stay away.
Good... For the Clones to discover the recalibration, a long time it will take. To change it back, longer still. Hurry.
Wait, Master. There is something I must know...
If into the security recordings you go, only pain will you find.
I must know the truth, Master.
(continuing) It can't be... It can't be...
The traitors have been taken care of, Lord Sidious.
Good... good... You have done well, my new apprentice. Do you feel your power growing?
Yes, My Master.
Now, Lord Vader, now go and bring peace to the Empire.
I can't watch any more.
Destroy the Sith, we must.
Send me to kill the Emperor. I will not kill Anakin.
To fight this Lord Sidious, strong enough, you are not.
He is like my brother... I cannot do it.
Twisted by the dark side, young Skywalker has become. The boy you trained, gone he is... Consumed by Darth Vader.
How could it have come to this?
To question, no time there is.
I do not know where the Emperor has sent him. I don't know where to look.
Use your feelings, Obi-Wan, and find him, you will. Visit the new Emperor, my task is. May the Force be with you.
May the Force be with you, Master Yoda.
Hello, might I help you... Oh, it's you, Master Kenobi. Come in, quickly.
Has Anakin been here... ?
Yes... right after the attack on the Jedi Temple.
Master Kenobi...
(continuing) Oh, Obi-Wan, thank goodness... you're alive.
The Republic has fallen. Padme... The Jedi Order is no more...
I know, it's hard to believe everything to which we've dedicated our lives is gone.
I believe we have been part of a plot hundreds of years in the making.
The Senate is still intact, there is some hope.
No. Padme... It's over... The Sith now rule the galaxy as they did before the Republic.
The Sith!?!
I'm here looking for Anakin... When was the last time you saw him?
Yesterday.
And do you know where he is now?
(looks down) No.
Padme, I need your help. He's in grave danger.
From the Sith?
From himself... Padme, Anakin has turned to the dark side.
You're wrong! How could you even say that?
I have seen a security hologram of him killing younglings.
Not Anakin! He couldn't!
He was deceived by a lie. We all were. It appears that the Chancellor is behind everything, including the war. Palpatine is the Sith Lord we've been looking for. After the death of Count Dooku, Anakin became his new apprentice.
I don't believe you... I can't.
Padme, I must find him.
You're going to kill him, aren't you?
He has become a very great threat.
I can't...
Anakin is the father, isn't he?
(continuing) I'm so sorry.
My Lady, let me come with you.
There is no danger. The fighting is over, and... this is personal.
As you wish, My Lady... but I strongly disagree.
I'll be all right, Captain.
(continuing) This is something I must do myself. Besides, Threepio will look after me.
Oh, dear.
Green light. Do you know that I think I'm beginning to get the hang of this flying business.
The Separatists are taken care of, My Master.
It is finished, then. You have restored peace and justice to the galaxy. You have done well, Lord Vader.
Thank you, My Master.
Send a message to the ships of the Trade Federation. Tell them the Separatist leaders have been wiped out. Grievous and Dooku have been destroyed. All droid units must shut down immediately.
Very good, My Lord.
Padme, I saw your ship...
Oh, Anakin!
It's all right, you're safe now. What are you doing out here?
I was so worried about you. Obi-Wan told me terrible things.
What things?
He said you have turned to the dark side... that you killed younglings.
Obi-Wan is trying to turn you against me.
He cares about us.
Us??!
He knows... He wants to help you.
Is Obi-Wan going to protect you? He can't... he can't help you. He's not strong enough.
Anakin, all I want is your love.
Love won't save you, Padme. Only my new powers can do that.
At what cost? You are a good person. Don't do this.
I won't lose you the way I lost my mother! I've become more powerful than any Jedi has ever dreamed of and I've done it for you. To protect you.
Come away with me. Help me raise our child. Leave everything else behind while we still can.
Don't you see, we don't have to run away anymore. I have brought peace to the Republic. I am more powerful than the Chancellor. I can overthrow him, and together you and I can rule the galaxy. Make things the way we want them to be.
I don't believe what I'm hearing... Obi-Wan was right. You've changed.
I don't want to hear any more about Obi-Wan. The Jedi turned against me. Don't you turn against me.
I don't know you anymore. Anakin, you're breaking my heart. I'll never stop loving you, but you are going down a path I can't follow.
Because of Obi-Wan?
Because of what you've done... what you plan to do. Stop, stop now. Come back! I love you.
(seeing Obi-Wan) Liar!
No!
You're with him. You've betrayed me! You brought him here to kill me!
NO! Anakin. I swear... I...
Let her go, Anakin.
What have you and she been up to?
Let her go!
You turned her against me.
You have done that yourself.
You will not take her from me.
Your anger and your lust for power have already done that.
(continuing) You have allowed this Dark Lord to twist your mind until now... until now you have become the very thing you swore to destroy.
Don't lecture me, Obi-Wan. I see through the lies of the Jedi. I do not fear the dark side as you do. I have brought peace, justice, freedom, and security to my new Empire.
Your new Empire?
Don't make me kill you.
Anakin, my allegiance is to the Republic... to democracy.
If you're not with me, you're my enemy.
Only a Sith Lord deals in absolutes. I will do what I must.
You will try.
I hear a new apprentice, you have. Emperor, or should I call you Darth Sidious.
Master Yoda, you survived.
Surprised?
Your arrogance blinds you, Master Yoda. Now you will experience the full power of the dark side.
What are you doing? You're going to hurt her. Wait!!
I have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend. At last, the Jedi are no more.
Not if anything I have to say about it, Lord Sidious.
(continuing) At an end your rule is and not short enough it was, I must say.
(continuing) If so powerful you are, why leave??
You will not stop me. Darth Vader will become more powerful than either of us.
Faith in your new apprentice, misplaced may be, as is your faith in the dark side of the Force.
Don't make me destroy you, Master. You're no match for the dark side.
I've heard that before, Anakin... but I never thought I'd hear it from you.
(continuing) The flaw of power is arrogance.
You hesitate... the flaw of compassion.
Destroy you I will, just as Master Kenobi, your apprentice will destroy.
Hurry. Careful timing we will need.
(in speeder) There aren't many troops on this side. Activate your homing beacon when you're ready.
There is no sign of his body, sir.
Then he is not dead.
Double your search.
Yes sir. Right away, sir.
(to Mas Amedda) Tell Captain Kagi to prepare my shuttle for immediate takeoff.
Yes, Master.
I sense Lord Vader is in danger.
Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.
I am being careful. I've got a good hold on her, but... I'm worried about my back. I hope it's able to hold up under this weight.
I have failed you, Anakin. I was never able to teach you to think.
I should have known the Jedi were plotting to take over...
From the Sith!!! Anakin, Chancellor Palpatine is evil.
From the Jedi point of view! From my point of view, the Jedi are evil.
Well, then you are lost!
This is the end for you, My Master. I wish it were otherwise.
It's over, Anakin. I have the high ground.
You underestimate my power!
Don't try it.
(continuing)... You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would, destroy the Sith, not join them. It was you who would bring balance to the Force, not leave it in Darkness.
I hate you!
You were my brother, Anakin. I loved you.
Master Kenobi! We have Miss Padme on board. Please, please hurry. We should leave this dreadful place.
Obi-Wan? Is Anakin all right?
Anakin! Anakin! There he is. He's still alive. Get a medical capsule, immediately.
Yes sir. Right away.
Failed to stop the Sith Lord, I have. Still much to learn, there is...
(V.O.) Patience. You will have time. I did not. When I became one with the Force I made a great discovery. With my training, you will be able to merge with the Force at will. Your physical self will fade away, but you will still retain your consciousness. You will become more powerful than any Sith.
Eternal consciousness.
(V.O.) The ability to defy oblivion can be achieved, but only for oneself. It was accomplished by a Shaman of the Whills. It is a state acquired through compassion, not greed.
... to become one with the Force, and influence still have... A power greater than all, it is.
(V.O.) You will learn to let go of everything. No attachment, no thought of self. No physical self.
A great Jedi Master, you have become, Qui-Gon Jinn. Your apprentice I gratefully become.
Excuse me, Master Yoda. Obi-Wan Kenobi has made contact.
We'll take her to the medical center, quickly.
Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her.
She's dying?
We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies.
Babies??!!
She's carrying twins.
Save them, we must. They are our last hope.
It s some kind of reproductive process, I think.
Don't give up, Padme.
It's a boy.
Luke...
... and a girl.
... Leia.
You have twins, Padme They need you... hang on.
I can't...
Save your energy.
Obi-Wan... there... is good in him. I know there is... still...
My Lord, the construction is finished... he lives.
Good. Good.
(continuing) Lord Vader, can you hear me?
Yes, My Master.
(continuing) Where is Padme? Is she safe, is she all right?
I'm afraid she died.... it seems in your anger, you killed her.
I couldn't have! She was alive! I felt her! She was alive! It's impossible! No!!!
Pregnant, she must still appear. Hidden, safe, the children must be kept.
We must take them somewhere the Sith will not sense their presence.
Split up, they should be.
My wife and I will take the girl. We've always talked of adopting a baby girl. She will be loved with us.
And what of the boy?
To Tatooine. To his family, send him.
I will take the child and watch over him. Master Yoda, do you think Anakin's twins will be able to defeat Darth Sidious?
Strong the Force runs, in the Skywalker line. Hope, we can... Done, it is. Until the time is right, disappear we will.
(continuing) Master Kenobi, wait a moment. In your solitude on Tatooine, training I have for you.
Training??
An old friend has learned the path to immortality.
Who?
One who has returned from the netherworld of the Force to train me... your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.
Qui-Gon? But, how could he accomplish this?
The secret of the Ancient Order of the Whills, he studied. How to commune with him. I will teach you.
I will be able to talk with him?
How to join the Force, he will train you. Your consciousness you will retain, when one with the Force. Even your physical self, perhaps.
Captain Antilles.
Yes, Your Highness.
I'm placing these droids in your care. Treat them well. Clean them up. Have the Protocol Droid's mind wiped.
Oh, no.
Did you hear that? They've shut down the main reactor. We'll be destroyed for sure. This is madness!
We're doomed!
There'll be no escape for the Princess this time.
What's that?
I should have known better than to trust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister...
Hurry up! Come with me! What are you waiting for?! Get in gear!
ARTOO! ARTOO, where are you?
At last! Where have you been?
They're heading in this direction. What are we going to do? We'll be sent to the spice mine of Kessel or smashed into who knows what!
Wait a minute, where are you going?
The Death Star plans are not in the main computer.
Where are those transmissions you intercepted?
What have you done with those plans?
We intercepted no transmissions. Aaah... This is a consular ship. Were on a diplomatic mission.
If this is a consular ship... were is the Ambassador?
Commander, tear this ship apart until you've found those plans and bring me the Ambassador. I want her alive!
There she is! Set for stun!
She'll be all right. Inform Lord Vader we have a prisoner.
Hey, you're not permitted in there. It's restricted. You'll be deactivated for sure..
Don't call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of grease! Now come out before somebody sees you.
Secret mission? What plans? What are you talking about? I'm not getting in there!
I'm going to regret this.
There goes another one.
Hold your fire. There are no life forms. It must have been short-circuited.
That's funny, the damage doesn't look as bad from out here.
Are you sure this things safe?
I've told you kids to slow down!
Did I hear a young noise blast through here?
It was just wormie on another rampage.
Shape it up you guys!... Biggs?
I didn't know you were back! When did you get in?
Just now. I wanted to surprise you, hot shot. I thought you'd be here... certainly didn't expect you to be out working.
The Academy didn't change you much...but you're back so soon? Hey, what happened, didn't you get your commission?
Of course I got it. Signed aboard The Rand Ecliptic last week. First mate Biggs Darklighter at your service... (he salutes) ...I just came to say good-bye to all you unfortunate landlocked simpletons.
I almost forgot. There's a battle going on! Right here in our system. Come and look!
Not again! Forget it.
There they are!
That's no battle, hot shot... they're just sitting there! Probably a freighter-tanker refueling.
But there was a lot of firing earlier...
Hey, easy with those...
Don't worry about it, Wormie.
I keep telling you, the Rebellion is a long way from here. I doubt if the Empire would even fight to keep this system. Believe me Luke, this planet is a big hunk of nothing...
Lord Vader, I should have known. Only you could be so bold. The Imperial Senate will not sit for this, when they hear you've attacked a diplomatic...
Don't play games with me, Your Highness. You weren't on any mercy mission this time. You passed directly through a restricted system. Several transmissions were beamed to this ship by Rebel spies. I want to know what happened to the plans they sent you.
I don't know what you're talking about. I'm a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to Alderaan...
You're a part of the Rebel Alliance... and a traitor. Take her away!
Holding her is dangerous. If word of this gets out, it could generate sympathy for the Rebellion in the senate.
I have traced the Rebel spies to her. Now she is my only link to find their secret base!
She'll die before she tells you anything.
Leave that to me. Send a distress signal and then inform the senate that all aboard were killed!
Lord Vader, the battle station plans are not aboard this ship! And no transmissions were made. An escape pod was jettisoned during the fighting, but no life forms were aboard.
She must have hidden the plans in the escape pod. Send a detachment down to retrieve them. See to it personally, Commander. There'll be no one to stop us this time.
Yes, sir.
How did I get into this mess? I really don't know how. We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.
I've got to rest before I fall apart. My joints are almost frozen.
What a desolate place this is.
Where are you going?
Well, I'm not going that way. It's much too rocky. This way is much easier.
What makes you think there are settlements over there?
Don't get technical with me.
What mission? What are you talking about? I've had just about enough of you! Go that way! You'll be malfunctioning within a day, you nearsighted scrap pile!
And don't let me catch you following me begging for help, because you won't get it.
No more adventures. I'm not going that way.
That malfunctioning little twerp. This is all his fault! He tricked me into going this way, but he'll do no better.
Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm saved!
Over here! Help! Please, help!
(Very animated) ...so I cut off my power, shut down the afterburners and came in low on Deak's trail. I was so close I thought I was going to fry my instruments. As it was I busted up the Skyhopper pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me for the rest of the season. You should have been there... it was fantastic.
You ought to take it easy Luke. You may be the hottest bushpilot this side of Mos Eisley, but those little Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it up, and one day, whammo, you're going to be nothing more than a dark spot on the down side of a canyon wall.
Look who's talking. Now that you've been around those giant starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft in the city...
I've missed you kid.
Well, things haven't been the same since you left, Biggs. It's been so... quiet.
Luke, I didn't come back just to say good-bye... I shouldn't tell you this, but you're the only one I can trust... and if I don't come back, I want somebody to know.
What are you talking about?
I made some friends at the Academy. (he whispers) ...when our frigate goes to one of the central systems, we're going to jump ship and join the Alliance...
Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding! How?
Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth bigger than a meteor crater!
I'm sorry. I'm quiet. (he whispers) Listen how quiet I am. You can barely hear me...
My friend has a friend on Bestine who might help us make contact.
You're crazy! You could wander around forever trying to find them.
I know it's a long shot, but if I don't find them I'll do what I can on my own... It's what we always talked about. Luke, I'm not going to wait for the Empire to draft me into service. The Rebellion is spreading and I want to be on the right side -- the side I believe in.
And I'm stuck here...
I thought you were going to the Academy next term. You'll get your chance to get off this rock.
Not likely! I had to cancel my application. There has been a lot of unrest among the Sandpeople since you left... they've even raided the outskirts of Anchorhead.
Your uncle could hold off a whole colony of Sandpeople with one blaster.
I know, but he's got enough vaporators going to make the place pay off. He needs me for just one more season. I can't leave him now.
I feel for you, Luke, you're going to have to learn what seems to be important or what really is important. What good is all your uncle's work if it's taken over by the Empire?... You know they're starting to nationalize commerce in the central systems... it won't be long before your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving for the greater glory of the Empire.
It couldn't happen here. You said it yourself. The Empire won't bother with this rock.
Things always change.
I wish I was going... Are you going to be around long?
No, I'm leaving in the morning...
Then I guess I won't see you.
Maybe someday... I'll keep a lookout.
Well, I'll be at the Academy next season... after that who knows. I won't be drafted into the Imperial Starfleet that's for sure... Take care of yourself, you'll always be the best friend I've got.
So long, Luke.
ARTOO! It's you! It's you!
Someone was in the pod. The tracks go off in this direction.
Look, sir -- droids.
Wake up! Wake up!
We're doomed.
Do you think they'll melt us down?
Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this never end?
Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a translator to be sure it speaks Bocce.
It looks like we don't have much of a choice but I'll remind him.
I have no need for a protocol droid.
(quickly) Sir -- not in an environment such as this -- that's why I've also been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that...
What I really need is a droid that understands the binary language of moisture vaporators.
Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was programming binary load lifter... very similar to your vaporators. You could say...
Do you speak Bocce?
Of course I can, sir. It's like a second language for me... I'm as fluent in Bocce...
All right shut up! (turning to Jawa) I'll take this one.
Shutting up, sir.
Luke, take these two over to the garage, will you? I want you to have both of them cleaned up before dinner.
But I was going into Toshi Station to pick up some power converters...
You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done. Now come on, get to it!
All right, come on! And the red one, come on. Well, come on, Red, let's go.
Uncle Owen...
Yeah?
This R2 unit has a bad motivator. Look!
(to the head Jawa) Hey, what're you trying to push on us?
(pointing to ARTOO) Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is in prime condition. A real bargain.
Uncle Owen...
Yeah?
What about that one?
(to Jawa) What about that blue one? We'll take that one.
Yeah, take it away.
Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very pleased with that one, sir. He really is in first-class condition. I've worked with him before. Here he comes.
Okay, let's go.
(to ARTOO) Now, don't you forget this! Why I should stick my neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity!
Thank the maker! This oil bath is going to feel so good. I've got such a bad case of dust contamination, I can barely move!
It just isn't fair. Oh, Biggs is right. I'm never gonna get out of here!
Is there anything I might do to help?
Well, not unless you can alter time, speed up the harvest, or teleport me off this rock!
I don't think so, sir. I'm only a droid and not very knowledgeable about such things. Not on this planet, anyways. As a matter of fact, I'm not even sure which planet I'm on.
Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that it's farthest from.
I see, sir.
Uh, you can call me Luke.
I see, sir Luke.
(laughing) Just Luke.
And I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, ARTOO.
Hello.
You got a lot of carbon scoring here. It looks like you boys have seen a lot of action.
With all we've been through, sometimes I'm amazed we're in as good condition as we are, what with the Rebellion and all.
You know of the Rebellion against the Empire?
That's how we came to be in your service, if you take my meaning, sir.
Have you been in many battles?
Several, I think. Actually, there's not much to tell. I'm not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling stories. Well, not at making them interesting, anyways
Well, my little friend, you've got something jammed in here real good. Were you on a cruiser or...
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.
What's this?
What is what?!? He asked you a question... (pointing to Leia) What is that?
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.
Oh, he says it's nothing, sir. Merely a malfunction. Old data. Pay it no mind.
Who is she? She's beautiful.
I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir.
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi...
I think she was a passenger on our last voyage. A person of some importance, sir -- I believe. Our captain was attached to...
Is there more to this recording?
Behave yourself, ARTOO. You're going to get us in trouble. It's all right, you can trust him. He's our new master.
He says he's the property of Obi-Wan Kenobi, a resident of these parts. And it's a private message for him. Quite frankly, sir I don't know what he's talking about. Our last master was Captain Antilles, but with what we've been through, this little R2 unit has become a bit eccentric.
Obi-Wan Kenobi? I wonder if he means old Ben Kenobi?
I beg your pardon, sir, but do you know what he's talking about?
Well, I don't know anyone named Obi- Wan, but old Ben lives out beyond the dune sea. He's kind of a strange old hermit.
I wonder who she is. It sounds like she's in trouble. I'd better play back the whole thing.
He says the restraining bolt has short circuited his recording system. He suggests that if you remove the bolt, he might be able to play back the entire recording.
H'm? Oh, yeah, well, I guess you're too small to run away on me if I take this off! Okay.
There you go.
Well, wait a minute. Where'd she go? Bring her back! Play back the entire message.
What message? The one you're carrying inside your rusty innards!
Luke? Luke! Come to dinner!
All right, I'll be right there, Aunt Beru.
I'm sorry, sir, but he appears to have picked up a slight flutter.
Well, see what you can do with him. I'll be right back.
(to ARTOO) Just you reconsider playing that message for him.
No, I don't think he likes you at all.
No, I don't like you either.
You know, I think that R2 unit we bought might have been stolen.
What makes you think that?
Well, I stumbled across a recording while I was cleaning him. He says he belongs to someone called Obi-Wan Kenobi.
I thought he might have meant old Ben. Do you know what he's talking about? Well, I wonder if he's related to Ben.
That old man's just a crazy old wizard. Tomorrow I want you to take that R2 unit into Anchorhead and have its memory flushed. That'll be the end of it. It belongs to us now.
But what if this Obi-Wan comes looking for him?
He won't, I don't think he exists any more. He died about the same time as your father.
He knew my father?
I told you to forget it. Your only concern is to prepare the new droids for tomorrow. In the morning I want them on the south ridge working out those condensers.
Yes, sir. I think those new droids are going to work out fine. In fact, I, uh, was also thinking about our agreement about my staying on another season. And if these new droids do work out, I want to transmit my application to the Academy this year.
You mean the next semester before harvest?
Sure, there're more than enough droids.
Harvest is when I need you the most. Only one more season. This year we'll make enough on the harvest so I'll be able to hire some more hands. And then you can go to the Academy next year.
You must understand I need you here, Luke.
But it's a whole 'nother year.
Look, it's only one more season.
Yeah, that's what you said last year when Biggs and Tank left.
Where are you going?
It looks like I'm going nowhere. I have to finish cleaning those droids.
Owen, he can't stay here forever. Most of his friends have gone. It means so much to him.
I'll make it up to him next year. I promise.
Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He has too much of his father in him.
That's what I'm afraid of.
What are you doing hiding there?
"It wasn't my fault, sir. Please don't deactivate me. I told him not to go, but he's faulty, malfunctioning
Oh, no!
That R2 unit has always been a problem. These astro-droids are getting quite out of hand. Even I can't understand their logic at times.
How could I be so stupid? He's nowhere in sight. Blast it!
Pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go after him?
It's too dangerous with all the Sandpeople around. We'll have to wait until morning.
Luke, I'm shutting the power down for the night.
All right, I'll be there in a few minutes. Boy, am I gonna get it.
You know that little droid is going to cause me a lot of trouble.
Oh, he excels at that, sir.
Luke? Luke? Luke? Where could he be loafing now!
Have you seen Luke this morning?
He said he had some things to do before he started today, so he left early.
Uh? Did he take those two new droids with him?
I think so.
Well, he'd better have those units in the south range repaired be midday or there'll be hell to pay!
(yelling) How's that.
Old Ben Kenobi lives out in this direction somewhere, but I don't see how that R2 unit could have come this far. We must have missed him. Uncle Owen isn't going to take this very well.
Sir, would it help if you told him it was my fault.
(brightening) Sure. He needs you. He'd probably only deactivate you for a day or so...
Deactivate! Well, on the other hand if you hadn't removed his restraining bolt...
Wait, there's something dead ahead on the scanner. It looks like our droid... hit the accelerator.
Hey, whoa, just where do you think you're going?
Master Luke here is your rightful owner. We'll have no more of this Obi-Wan Kenobi jibberish... and don't talk to me about your mission, either. You're fortunate he doesn't blast you into a million pieces right here.
Well, come on. It's getting late. I only hope we can get back before Uncle Owen really blows up.
If you don't mind my saying so, sir, I think you should deactivate the little fugitive until you've gotten him back to your workshop.
No, he's not going to try anything.
What's wrong with him now?
Oh my... sir, he says there are several creatures approaching from the southeast.
Sandpeople! Or worst! Come on, let's have a look. Come on.
There are two Banthas down there but I don't see any... wait a second, they're Sandpeople all right. I can see one of them now.
Hello there! Come here my little friend. Don't be afraid.
Don't worry, he'll be all right.
What happened?
Rest easy, son, you've had a busy day. You're fortunate you're still in one piece.
Ben? Ben Kenobi! Boy, am I glad to see you!
The Jundland wastes are not to be traveled lightly. Tell me young Luke, what brings you out this far?
Oh, this little droid! I think he's searching for his former master... I've never seen such devotion in a droid before... there seems to be no stopping him. He claims to be the property of an Obi-Wan Kenobi. Is he a relative of yours? Do you know who he's talking about?
Obi-Wan Kenobi... Obi-Wan? Now thats a name I haven't heard in a long time... a long time.
I think my uncle knew him. He said he was dead.
Oh, he's not dead, not... not yet.
You know him!
Well of course, of course I know him. He's me! I haven't gone by the name Obi-Wan since oh, before you were born.
Then the droid does belong to you.
Don't seem to remember ever owning a droid. Very interesting...
I think we better get indoors. The Sandpeople are easily startled but they will soon be back and in greater numbers.
Threepio!
Where am I? I must have taken a bad step...
Can you stand? We've got to get out of here before the Sandpeople return.
I don't think I can make it. You go on, Master Luke. There's no sense in you risking yourself on my account. I'm done for.
No, you're not. What kind of talk is that?
Quickly, son... they're on the move.
No, my father didn't fight in the wars. He was a navigator on a spice freighter.
That's what your uncle told you. He didn't hold with your father's ideals. Thought he should have stayed here and not gotten involved.
You fought in the Clone Wars?
Yes, I was once a Jedi Knight the same as your father.
I wish I'd known him.
He was the best star-pilot in the galaxy, and a cunning warrior. I understand you've become quite a good pilot yourself. And he was a good friend. Which reminds me...
I have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but your uncle wouldn't allow it. He feared you might follow old Obi-Wan on some damned-fool idealistic crusade like your father did.
Sir, if you'll not be needing me, I'll close down for awhile.
Sure, go ahead.
What is it?
Your fathers lightsaber. This is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not as clumsy or as random as a blaster.
An elegant weapon for a more civilized time. For over a thousand generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.
How did my father die?
A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the Jedi are all but extinct. Vader was seduced by the dark side of the Force.
The Force?
Well, the Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together.
Now, let's see if we can't figure out what you are, my little friend. And where you come from.
I saw part of the message he was...
I seem to have found it.
General Kenobi, years ago you served my father in the Clone Wars. Now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire. I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to you in person, but my ship has fallen under attack and I'm afraid my mission to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I have placed information vital to the survival of the Rebellion into the memory systems of this R2 unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. You must see this droid safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope.
You must learn the ways of the Force if you're to come with me to Alderaan.
(laughing) Alderaan? I'm not going to Alderaan. I've got to go home. It's late, I'm in for it as it is.
I need your help, Luke. She needs your help. I'm getting too old for this sort of thing.
I can't get involved! I've got work to do! It's not that I like the Empire. I hate it! But there's nothing I can do about it right now. It's such a long way from here.
That's your uncle talking.
(sighing) Oh, God, my uncle. How am I ever going to explain this?
Learn about the Force, Luke.
Look, I can take you as far as Anchorhead. You can get a transport there to Mos Eisley or wherever you're going.
You must do what you feel is right, of course.
Until this battle station is fully operational we are vulnerable. The Rebel Alliance is too well equipped. They're more dangerous than you realize.
Dangerous to your starfleet, Commander, not to this battle station!
The Rebellion will continue to gain a support in the Imperial Senate as long as....
The Imperial Senate will no longer be of any concern to us. I've just received word that the Emperor has dissolved the council permanently. The last remnants of the Old Republic have been swept away.
That's impossible! How will the Emperor maintain control without the bureaucracy?
The regional governors now have direct control over territories. Fear will keep the local systems in line. Fear of this battle station.
And what of the Rebellion? If the Rebels have obtained a complete technical readout of this station, it is possible, however unlikely, that they might find a weakness and exploit it.
The plans you refer to will soon be back in our hands.
Any attack made by the Rebels against this station would be a useless gesture, no matter what technical data they've obtained. This station is now the ultimate power in the universe. I suggest we use it!
Don't be too proud of this technological terror you've constructed. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force.
Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's ways, Lord Vader. Your sad devotion to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure up the stolen data tapes, or given you clairvoyance enough to find the Rebel's hidden fort...
I find your lack of faith disturbing.
Enough of this! Vader, release him!
As you wish.
This bickering is pointless. Lord Vader will provide us with the location of the Rebel fortress by the time this station is operational. We will then crush the Rebellion with one swift stroke.
It looks like Sandpeople did this, all right. Look, here are Gaffi sticks, Bantha tracks. It's just... I never heard of them hitting anything this big before.
They didn't. But we are meant to think they did. These tracks are side by side. Sandpeople always ride single file to hide there numbers.
These are the same Jawas that sold us ARTOO and Threepio.
And these blast points, too accurate for Sandpeople. Only Imperial stormtroopers are so precise.
Why would Imperial troops want to slaughter Jawas?
If they traced the robots here, they may have learned who they sold them to. And that would lead them home!
Wait, Luke! It's too dangerous.
Uncle Owen! Aunt Beru! Uncle Owen!
And, now Your Highness, we will discuss the location of your hidden Rebel base.
There's nothing you could have done, Luke, had you been there. You'd have been killed, too, and the droids would be in the hands of the Empire.
I want to come with you to Alderaan. There's nothing here for me now. I want to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like my father.
Mos Eisley Spaceport. You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy. We must be cautious.
How long have you had these droids?
About three or four seasons.
They're for sale if you want them.
Let me see your identification.
You don't need to see his identification.
We don't need to see his identification.
These are not the droids your looking for.
These are not the droids we're looking for.
He can go about his business.
You can go about your business.
(to Luke) Move along.
Move along. Move along.
I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting creatures.
Go on, go on. I can't understand how we got by those troopers. I thought we were dead.
The Force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. You will find it a powerful ally.
Do you really think we're going to find a pilot here that'll take us to Alderaan?
Well, most of the best freighter pilots can be found here. Only watch your step. This place can be a little rough.
I'm ready for anything.
Come along, ARTOO.
We don't serve their kind here!
What?
Your droids. They'll have to wait outside. We don't want them here.
Listen, why don't you wait out by the speeder. We don't want any trouble.
I heartily agree with you sir.
Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!?
He doesn't like you.
I'm sorry.
I don't like you either.
Don't insult us. You just watch yourself. We're wanted men. I have the death sentence in twelve systems.
I'll be careful than.
You'll be dead.
This little one isn't worth the effort. Come let me buy you something...
No blasters! No blaster!
This is CHEWBACCA. He's first-mate on a ship that might suit our needs.
I don't like the look of this.
Han Solo. I'm captain of the Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells me you're looking for passage to the Alderaan system.
Yes, indeed. If it's a fast ship.
Fast ship? You've never heard of the Millennium Falcon?
Should I have?
It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs!
I've outrun Imperial starships, not the local bulk-cruisers, mind you. I'm talking about the big Corellian ships now. She's fast enough for you, old man. What's the cargo?
Only passengers. Myself, the boy, two droids, and no questions asked.
What is it? Some kind of local trouble?
Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements.
Well, that's the trick, isn't it? And it's going to cost you something extra. Ten thousand in advance.
Ten thousand? We could almost buy our own ship for that!
But who's going to fly it, kid! You?
You bet I could. I'm not such a bad pilot myself! We don't have to sit here and listen...
We haven't that much with us. But we could pay you two thousand now, plus fifteen when we reach Alderaan.
Seventeen, huh!
Okay. You guys got yourself a ship. We'll leave as soon as you're ready. Docking bay Ninety-four.
Ninety-four.
Looks like somebody's beginning to take an interest in your handiwork.
All right, we'll check it out.
Seventeen thousand! Those guys must really be desperate. This could really save my neck. Get back to the ship and get her ready.
You'll have to sell your speeder.
That's okay. I'm never coming back to this planet again.
Going somewhere, Solo?
Yes, Greedo. As a matter of fact, I was just going to see your boss. Tell Jabba that I've got his money.
It's too late. You should have paid him when you had the chance. Jabba's put a price on your head, so large that every bounty hunter in the galaxy will be looking for you. I'm lucky I found you first.
Yeah, but this time I got the money.
If you give it to me, I might forget I found you.
I don't have it with me. Tell Jabba...
Jabba's through with you. He has no time for smugglers who drop their shipments at the first sign of an Imperial cruiser.
Even I get boarded sometimes. Do you think I had a choice?
You can tell that to Jabba. He may only take your ship.
Over my dead body.
That's the idea. I've been looking forward to killing you for a long time.
Yes, I'll bet you have.
Sorry about the mess.
Her resistance to the mind probe is considerable. It will be some time before we can extract any information from her.
The final check-out is complete. All systems are operational. What course shall we set?
Perhaps she would respond to an alternative form of persuasion.
What do you mean?
I think it is time we demonstrate the full power of this station. (to soldier) Set your course for Princess Leia's home planet of Alderaan.
With pleasure.
Lock the door, ARTOO.
All right, check that side of the street. It's secure. Move on to the next door.
I would much rather have gone with Master Luke than stay here with you. I don't know what all the trouble is about, but I'm sure it must be your fault.
You watch your language!
He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out, they're just not in demand.
It will be enough.
If the ship's as fast as he's boasting, we ought to do well.
Come on out, Solo!
I've been waiting for you, Jabba.
I expected you would be.
I'm not the type to run.
(fatherly-smooth) Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me... why haven't you paid me? And why did you have to fry poor Greedo like that... after all we've been through together.
You sent Greedo to blast me.
(mock surprise) Han, why you're the best smuggler in the business. You're too valuable to fry. He was only relaying my concern at your delays. He wasn't going to blast you.
I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those twerps. If you've got something to say to me, come see me yourself.
Han, Han! If only you hadn't had to dump that shipment of spice... you understand I just can't make an exception. Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped their shipment at the first sign of an Imperial starship? It's not good business.
You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. I had no choice, but I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little extra. I just need some more time.
(to his men) Put your blasters away. Han, my boy, I'm only doing this because you're the best and I need you. So, for an extra, say twenty percent I'll give you a little more time... but this is it. If you disappoint me again, I'll put a price on your head so large you won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your short life.
Jabba, I'll pay you because it's my pleasure.
What a piece of junk.
She'll make point five beyond the speed of light. She may not look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid. I've added some special modifications myself.
We're a little rushed, so if you'll hurry aboard we'll get out of here.
Hello, sir.
Which way?
All right, men. Load your weapons!
Stop that ship!
Blast 'em!
Chewie, get us out of here!
Oh, my. I'd forgotten how much I hate space travel.
It looks like an Imperial cruiser. Our passengers must be hotter than I thought. Try and hold them off. Angle the deflector shield while I make the calculations for the jump to light speed.
"Stay sharp! There are two more coming in
Why don't you outrun them? I thought you said this thing was fast.
Watch your mouth, kid, or you're going to find yourself floating home. We'll be safe enough once we make the jump to hyperspace. Besides, I know a few maneuvers. We'll lose them!
Here's where the fun begins!
How long before you can make the jump to light speed?
It'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the navi-computer.
Are you kidding? At the rate they're gaining...
Traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy! Without precise calculations we could fly right through a star or bounce too close to a supernova and that'd end your trip real quick, wouldn't it?
What's that flashing?
We're losing our deflector shield. Go strap yourself in, I'm going to make the jump to light speed.
We've entered the Alderaan system.
Governor Tarkin, I should have expected to find you holding Vader's leash. I recognized your foul stench when I was brought on board.
Charming to the last. You don't know how hard I found it signing the order to terminate your life!
I surprised you had the courage to take the responsibility yourself!
Princess Leia, before your execution I would like you to be my guest at a ceremony that will make this battle station operational. No star system will dare oppose the Emperor now.
The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers.
Not after we demonstrate the power of this station. In a way, you have determined the choice of the planet that'll be destroyed first. Since you are reluctant to provide us with the location of the Rebel base, I have chosen to test this station's destructive power... on your home planet of Alderaan.
No! Alderaan is peaceful. We have no weapons. You can't possibly...
You would prefer another target? A military target? Then name the system!
I grow tired of asking this. So it'll be the last time. Where is the Rebel base?
(softly) Dantooine.
They're on Dantooine.
There. You see Lord Vader, she can be reasonable. (addressing Motti) Continue with the operation. You may fire when ready.
What?
You're far too trusting. Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration. But don't worry. We will deal with your Rebel friends soon enough.
No!
Commence primary ignition.
Are you all right? What's wrong?
I felt a great disturbance in the Force... as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. I fear something terrible has happened.
You'd better get on with your exercises.
Well, you can forget your troubles with those Imperial slugs. I told you I'd outrun 'em.
Don't everyone thank me at once.
Anyway, we should be at Alderaan about oh-two-hundred hours.
Now be careful, ARTOO.
He made a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you.
(interrupting) Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Wookiee.
But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid.
That's 'cause droids don't pull people's arms out of their socket when they lose. Wookiees are known to do that.
I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, ARTOO. Let the Wookiee win.
Remember, a Jedi can feel the Force flowing through him.
You mean it controls your actions?
Partially. But it also obeys your commands.
Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid.
You don't believe in the Force, do you?
Kid, I've flown from one side of this galaxy to the other. I've seen a lot of strange stuff, but I've never seen anything to make me believe there's one all-powerful force controlling everything. There's no mystical energy field that controls my destiny.
It's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense.
I suggest you try it again, Luke.
This time, let go your conscious self and act on instinct.
(laughing) With the blast shield down, I can't even see. How am I supposed to fight?
Your eyes can deceive you. Don't trust them.
Stretch out with your feelings.
You see, you can do it.
I call it luck.
In my experience, there's no such thing as luck.
Look, going good against remotes is one thing. Going good against the living? That's something else.
Looks like we're coming up on Alderaan.
You know, I did feel something. I could almost see the remote.
That's good. You have taken your first step into a larger world.
Yes.
Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding systems.
She lied! She lied to us!
I told you she would never consciously betray the Rebellion.
Terminate her... immediately!
Stand by, Chewie, here we go. Cut in the sublight engines.
What the...? Aw, we've come out of hyperspace into a meteor shower. Some kind of asteroid collision. It's not on any of the charts.
What's going on?
Our position is correct, except... no, Alderaan!
What do you mean? Where is it?
Thats what I'm trying to tell you, kid. It ain't there. It's been totally blown away.
What? How?
Destroyed... by the Empire!
The entire starfleet couldn't destroy the whole planet. It'd take a thousand ships with more fire power than I've...
There's another ship coming in.
Maybe they know what happened.
It's an Imperial fighter.
It followed us!
No. It's a short range fighter.
There aren't any bases around here. Where did it come from?
It sure is leaving in a big hurry. If they identify us, we're in big trouble.
Not if I can help it. Chewie...jam it's transmissions.
It'd be as well to let it go. It's too far out of range.
Not for long...
A fighter that size couldn't get this deep into space on its own.
It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something.
Well, he ain't going to be around long enough to tell anyone about us
Look at him. He's headed for that small moon.
I think I can get him before he gets there... he's almost in range.
That's no moon! It's a space station.
It's too big to be a space station.
I have a very bad feeling about this.
Yeah, I think your right. Full reverse! Chewie, lock in the auxiliary power.
Why are we still moving towards it?
We're caught in a tractor beam! It's pulling us in!
But there's gotta be something you can do!
There's nothin' I can do about it, kid. I'm in full power. I'm going to have to shut down. But they're not going to get me without a fight!
You can't win. But there are alternatives to fighting.
Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are opening the magnetic field.
To you stations! (to another officer) Come with me.
Close all outboard shields! Close all outboard shields!
Yes.
(over intercom) We've captured a freighter entering the remains of the Alderaan system. It's markings match those of a ship that blasted its way out of Mos Eisley.
They must be trying to return the stolen plans to the princess. She may yet be of some use to us.
(over intercom) Unlock one-five-seven and nine. Release charges.
(to Vader) There's no one on board, sir. According to the log, the crew abandoned ship right after takeoff. It must be a decoy, sir. Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned.
Did you find any droids?
No, sir. If there were any on board, they must also have jettisoned.
Send a scanning crew on board. I want every part of this ship checked.
Yes, sir.
I sense something... a presence I haven't felt since...
Get me a scanning crew in here on the double. I want every part of this ship checked!
Boy, it's lucky you had these compartments.
I use them for smuggling. I never thought I'd be smuggling myself in them. This is ridiculous. Even if I could take off, I'd never get past the tractor beam.
Leave that to me!
Damn fool. I knew that you were going to say that!
Who's the more foolish... the fool or the fool who follows him?
The ship's all yours. If the scanners pick up anything, report it immediately. All right, let's go.
Hey down there, could you give us a hand with this?
TX-four-one-two. Why aren't you at your post? TX-four-one-two, do you copy?
Take over. We've got a bad transmitter. I'll see what I can do.
You know, between his howling and your blasting everything in sight, it's a wonder the whole station doesn't know we're here.
Bring them on! I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.
We found the computer outlet, sir.
Plug in. He should be able to interpret the entire Imperial computer network.
He says he's found the main computer to power the tractor beam that's holding the ship here. He'll try to make the precise location appear on the monitor.
The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactor in seven locations. A power loss at one of the terminals will allow the ship to leave.
I don't think you boys can help. I must go alone.
Whatever you say. I've done more that I bargained for on this trip already.
I want to go with you.
Be patient, Luke. Stay and watch over the droids.
But he can...
They must be delivered safely or other star systems will suffer the same fate as Alderaan. Your destiny lies along a different path than mine. The Force will be with you... always!
Boy you said it, Chewie.
Where did you dig up that old fossil?
Ben is a great man.
Yeah, great at getting us into trouble.
I didn't hear you give any ideas...
Well, anything would be better than just hanging around waiting for him to pick us up...
Who do you think...
What is it?
"I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir. He says ""I found her"", and keeps repeating, ""She's here."""
Well, who... who has he found?
Princess Leia.
The princess? She's here?
Princess? What's going on?
Level five. Detention block A A-twenty- three. I'm afraid she's scheduled to be terminated.
Oh, no! We've got to do something.
What are you talking about?
The droid belongs to her. She's the one in the message... We've got to help her.
Now, look, don't get any funny ideas. The old man wants us to wait right here.
But he didn't know she was here. Look, will you just find a way back into the detention block?
I'm not going anywhere.
They're going to execute her. Look, a few minutes ago you said you didn't want to just wait here to be captured. Now all you want to do is stay.
Marching into the detention area is not what I had in mind.
But they're going to kill her!
Better her than me...
She's rich.
Rich?
Yes. Rich, powerful! Listen, if you were to rescue her, the reward would be...
What?
Well more wealth that you can imagine.
I don't know, I can imagine quite a bit!
You'll get it!
I better!
You will...
All right, kid. But you'd better be right about this.
All right.
What's your plan?
Uh... Threepio, hand me those binders there will you?
Okay. Now, I'm going to put these on you.
Okay. Han, you put these on.
Don't worry, Chewie. I think I know what he has in mind.
Master Luke, sir! Pardon me for asking... but, ah... what should ARTOO and I do if we're discovered here?
Lock the door!
And hope they don't have blasters.
That isn't very reassuring.
I can't see a thing in this helmet.
This is not going to work.
Why didn't you say so before?
I did say so before!
Where are you taking this... thing?
Prisoner transfer from Block one-one- three-eight.
I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it.
Look out! He's loose!
He's going to pull us all apart.
Go get him!
We've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in. Here it is... cell twenty-one-eight-seven. You go get her. I'll hold them here.
(sounding official) Everything is under control. Situation normal.
What happened?
(getting nervous) Uh... had a slight weapons malfunction. But, uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here, now, thank you. How are you?
We're sending a squad up.
Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor leak here now. Give us a few minutes to lock it down. Large leak... very dangerous.
Who is this? What's your operating number?
Boring conversation anyway. (yelling down the hall) Luke! We're going to have company!
(finally) Aren't you a little short to be a stormtrooper?
What? Oh... the uniform. I'm Luke Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you.
You're who?
I'm here to rescue you. I've got your R2 unit. I'm here with Ben Kenobi.
Ben Kenobi is here! Where is he?
Come on!
He is here...
Obi-Wan Kenobi! What makes you think so?
A tremor in the Force. The last time I felt it was in the presence of my old master.
Surely he must be dead by now.
Don't underestimate the power of the Force.
The Jedi are extinct, their fire has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.
Yes.
Governor Tarkin, we have an emergency alert in detention block A A-twenty- three.
The princess! Put all sections on alert!
Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with him.
If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape.
Escape is not his plan. I must face him alone.
Chewie!
Get behind me! Get behind me!
Can't get out that way.
Looks like you managed to cut off our only escape route.
(sarcastically) Maybe you'd like it back in your cell, Your Highness.
See-Threepio! See-Threepio!
(over comlink) Yes sir?
We've been cut off! Are there any other ways out of the cell bay?... What was that? I didn't copy!
"I said, all systems have been alerted to your presence, sir. The main entrance seems to be the only way in or out
Open up in there!
Oh, no!
There isn't any other way out.
I can't hold them off forever! Now what?
This is some rescue. When you came in here, didn't you have a plan for getting out?
(pointing to Luke) He's the brains, sweetheart.
Well, I didn't...
What the hell are you doing?
Somebody has to save our skins. Into the garbage chute, wise guy.
Get in there you big furry oaf! I don't care what you smell! Get in there and don't worry about it.
Wonderful girl! Either I'm going to kill her or I'm beginning to like her. Get in there!
(sarcastically) Oh! The garbage chute was a really wonderful idea. What an incredible smell you've discovered! Let's get out of here! Get away from there...
No! wait!
Will you forget it? I already tried it. It's magnetically sealed!
Put that thing away! You're going to get us all killed.
Absolutely, Your Worship. Look, I had everything under control until you led us down here. You know, it's not going to take them long to figure out what happened to us.
It could be worse...
It's worse.
There's something alive in here!
That's your imagination.
Something just moves past my leg! Look! Did you see that?
What?
Help!
Luke! Luke! Luke!
Luke!
Luke, Luke, grab a hold of this.
Blast it, will you! My gun's jammed.
Where?
Anywhere! Oh!!
Luke! Luke!
Grab him!
What happened?
I don't know, it just let go of me and disappeared...
I've got a very bad feeling about this.
The walls are moving!
Don't just stand there. Try to brace it with something.
Wait a minute!
Threepio! Come in Threepio! Threepio! Where could he be?
Take over! (pointing to the dead officer) See to him! Look there!
They're madmen! They're heading for the prison level. If you hurry, you might catch them.
(to his troops) Follow me! You stand guard.
(to ARTOO) Come on!
Oh! All this excitement has overrun the circuits of my counterpart here. If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down to maintenance.
All right.
Threepio! Come in, Threepio! Threepio!
Get to the top!
I can't
Where could he be? Threepio! Threepio, will you come in?
They aren't here! Something must have happened to them. See if they've been captured.
Hurry!
One thing's for sure. We're all going to be a lot thinner! (to Leia) Get on top of it!
I'm trying!
(to ARTOO) Thank goodness, they haven't found them! Where could they be?
Use the comlink? Oh, my! I forgot I turned it off!
Are you there, sir?
Threepio!
We've had some problems...
(over comlink) Will you shut up and listen to me? Shut down all garbage mashers on the detention level, will you? Do you copy?
Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.
(over comlink) Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.
(to ARTOO) No. Shut them all down! Hurry!
Listen to them! They're dying, ARTOO! Curse my metal body! I wasn't fast enough. It's all my fault! My poor master!
(over comlink) Threepio, we're all right!
We're all right. You did great.
Hey... hey, open the pressure maintenance hatch on unit number... where are we?
(over comlink) Three-two-six-eight-two-seven.
If we can just avoid any more female advice, we ought to be able to get out of here.
Well, let's get moving!
(to Chewie) Where are you going?
No, wait. They'll hear!
(to Chewie) Come here, you big coward!
Chewie! Come here!
Listen. I don't know who you are, or where you came from, but from now on, you do as I tell you. Okay?
Look, Your Worshipfulness, let's get one thing straight! I take orders from one person! Me!
It's a wonder you're still alive. (looking at Chewie) Will somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?
No reward is worth this.
Secure this area until the alert is canceled.
Give me regular reports.
Do you know what's going on?
Maybe it's another drill.
What was that?
Oh, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.
(looking at his ship) There she is.
See-Threepio, do you copy?
(voice) For the moment. Uh, we're in the main hangar across from the ship.
We're right above you. Stand by.
You came in that thing? You're braver that I thought.
Nice! Come on!
It's them! Blast them
(to Luke and Leia) Get back to the ship!
Where are you going? Come back!
He certainly has courage.
What good will it do us if he gets himself killed? Come o
(gasping) I think we took a wrong turn.
There's no lock!
That oughta hold it for a while.
Quick, we've got to get across. Find the control that extends the bridge.
Oh, I think I just blasted it.
They're coming through!
Here, hold this.
Here they come!
For luck!
Where could they be?
Close the blast doors!
Open the blast doors! Open the blast doors!
I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again, at last. The circle is now complete.
"When I left you, I was but the learner
Only a master of evil, Darth.
Your powers are weak, old man.
You can't win, Darth. If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
Didn't we just leave this party?
What kept you?
We ran into some old friends.
Is the ship all right?
Seems okay, if we can get to it. Just hope the old man got the tractor beam out of commission.
Look!
Come on, ARTOO, we're going!
Now's our chance! Go!
No!
(to Luke) Come on!
Come on! Luke, its too late!
Blast the door! Kid!
Run, Luke! Run!
I hope the old man got that tractor beam out if commission, or this is going to be a real short trip. Okay, hit it!
(to Chewie) We're coming up on the sentry ships. Hold 'em off! Angle the deflector shields while I charge up the main guns!
I can't believe he's gone.
There wasn't anything you could have done.
(to Luke) Come on, buddy, we're not out of this yet!
(to Luke) You in, kid? Okay, stay sharp!
(into intercom) Here they come!
They're coming in too fast!
Oooh!
We've lost lateral controls.
Don't worry, she'll hold together.
(to ship) You hear me, baby? Hold together!
Got him! I got him!
Great kid! Don't get cocky.
There are still two more of them out there!
(laughing) That's it! We did it!
We did it!
Help! I think I'm melting! (to ARTOO) This is all your fault.
Are they away?
They have just made the jump into hyperspace.
You're sure the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship? I'm taking an awful risk, Vader. This had better work.
Not a bad bit of rescuing, huh? You know, sometimes I even amaze myself.
That doesn't sound too hard. Besides, they let us go. It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape.
Easy... you call that easy?
Their tracking us!
Not this ship, sister.
At least the information in ARTOO is still intact.
What's so important? What's he carrying?
The technical readouts of that battle station. I only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found. It's not over yet!
It is for me, sister! Look, I ain't in this for your revolution, and I'm not in it for you, Princess. I expect to be well paid. I'm in it for the money!
You needn't worry about your reward. If money is all that you love, then that's what you'll receive!
Your friend is quite a mercenary. I wonder if he really cares about anything... or anyone.
I care!
So... what do you think of her, Han?
I'm trying not to, kid!
(under his breath) Good...
Still, she's got a lot of spirit. I don't know, what do you think? Do you think a princess and a guy like me...
No!
(holding Leia) You're safe! We had feared the worst.
composes himself, steps back and bows formally.
When we heard about Alderaan, we were afraid that you were... lost along with your father.
We don't have time for our sorrows, Commander. The battle station has surely tracked us here. (looking pointedly to Han) It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape. You must use the information in this R2 unit to plan the attack. It is our only hope.
Yes.
We are approaching the planet Yavin. The Rebel base is on a moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the planet.
The battle station is heavily shielded and carries a firepower greater than half the star fleet. It's defenses are designed around a direct large-scale assault. A small one-man fighter should be able to penetrate the outer defense.
Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub fighters going to be against that?
Well, the Empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to be any threat, or they'd have a tighter defense. An analysis of the plans provided by Princess Leia has demonstrated a weakness in the battle station.
The approach will not be easy. You are required to maneuver straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point. The target area is only two meters wide. It's a small thermal exhaust port, right below the main port. The shaft leads directly to the reactor system. A precise hit will start a chain reaction which should destroy the station.
Only a precise hit will set up a chain reaction. The shaft is ray-shielded, so you'll have to use proton torpedoes.
That's impossible, even for a computer.
It's not impossible. I used to bull's- eye womp rats in my T-sixteen back home. They're not much bigger than two meters.
Man your ships! And may the Force be with you!
Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity. The moon with the Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.
This will be a day long remembered. It has seen the end of Kenobi and it will soon see the end of the Rebellion.
(over loudspeaker) All flight trooper, man your stations. All flight troops, man your stations.
So... you got your reward and you're just leaving then?
That's right, yeah! I got some old debts I've got to pay off with this stuff. Even if I didn't, you don't think I'd be fool enough to stick around here, do you? Why don't you come with us? You're pretty good in a fight. I could use you.
(getting angry) Come on! Why don't you take a look around? You know what's about to happen, what they're up against. They could use a good pilot like you. You're turning your back on them.
What good's a reward if you ain't around to use it? Besides, attacking that battle station ain't my idea of courage. It's more like suicide.
All right. Well, take care of yourself, Han. I guess that's what you're best at, isn't it?
Hey, Luke... may the Force be with you!
What're you lookin' at? I know what I'm doing.
What's wrong?
Oh, it's Han! I don't know, I really thought he'd change his mind.
He's got to follow his own path. No one can choose it for him.
I only wish Ben were here.
Luke! I don't believe it! How'd you get here... are you going out with us?!
Biggs! Of course, I'll be up there with you! Listen, have I got some stories to tell...
Are you... Luke Skywalker? Have you been checked out on the Incom T-sixty- five?
Sir, Luke is the best bushpilot in the outer rim territories.
I met your father once when I was just a boy, he was a great pilot. You'll do all right. If you've got half of your father's skill, you'll do better than all right.
Thank you, sir. I'll try.
I've got to get aboard. Listen, you'll tell me your stories when we come back. All right?
I told you I'd make it someday, Biggs.
(going off) You did, all right. It's going to be like old times, Luke. We're a couple of shooting stars that'll never be stopped!
This R2 unit of your seems a bit beat up. Do you want a new one?
Not on your life! That little droid and I have been through a lot together. (to ARTOO) You okay, ARTOO?
Okay, easy she goes!
Hang on tight,ARTOO, you've got to come back.
You wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?
Luke, the Force will be with you.
Stand-by alert. Death Star approaching. Estimated time to firing range, fifteen minutes.
All wings report in.
Red Ten standing by.
(over Biggs' headset) Red Seven standing by.
Red Three standing by.
Red Six standing by.
(over headset) Red Nine standing by.
Red Two standing by.
(over headset) Red Eleven standing by.
Red Five standing by.
Lock S-foils in attack position.
(over headset) We're passing through their magnetic field.
Hold tight!
(over headset) Switch your deflectors on.
(over headset) Double front!
Look at the size of that thing!
(over headset) Cut the chatter, Red Two.
Accelerate to attack speed. This is it, boys!
Red Leader, this is Gold Leader.
(over headset) I copy, Gold Leader.
We're starting for the target shaft now.
We're in position. I'm going to cut across the axis and try and draw their fire.
(over war room speaker system) Heavy fire, boss! Twenty-degrees.
(over speaker) I see it. Stay low.
"This is Red Five
(over headset) Luke, pull up!
Are you all right?
I got a little cooked, but I'm okay.
We count thirty Rebel ships, Lord Vader. But they're so small they're evading our turbo-lasers!
We'll have to destroy them ship to ship. Get the crews to their fighters.
Luke, let me know when you're going in.
I'm on my way in now...
Watch yourself! There's a lot of fire coming from the right side of that deflection tower.
I'm on i
Squad leaders, we've picked up a new group of signals. Enemy fighters coming your way.
My scope's negative. I don't see anything.
Keep up your visual scanning. With all this jamming, they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up.
Biggs! You've picked one up... watch it!
I can't see it! Where is he?!
He's on me tight, I can't shake him... I can't shake him.
Hang on, Biggs, I'm coming in.
Got him!
Several fighters have broken off from the main group. Come with me!
(over speaker) Pull in! Luke... pull in!
(over speaker) Watch your back, Luke!
(over headset) Watch your back! Fighter's above you, coming in!
I'm hit, but not bad.
ARTOO, see what you can do with it. Hang on back there.
(over headset) Red Six...
 Can you see Red Five?
There's a heavy fire zone on this side. Red Five, where are you?
I can't shake him!
I'm on him, Luke!
Hold on!
Blast it! Wedge where are you?
Thanks, Wedge.
(over speaker) Good shooting, Wedge!
(over speaker) Red Leader...
This is Gold Leader. We're starting out attack run.
(over speaker) I copy, Gold Leader. Move into position.
Stay in attack formation!
(over speaker) The exhaust post is...
...marked and locked in!
Switch power to front deflector screens.
How many guns do you think, Gold Five.
(over speaker) I'd say about twenty guns. Some on the surface, some on the towers.
(over speaker) Death Star will be in range in five minutes.
Switching to targeting computer.
Computer's locked. Getting a signal.
The guns... they've stopped!
Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch for enemy fighters.
They've coming in! Three marks at two ten.
I'll take them myself! Cover me!
(over speaker) Yes, sir.
 (into mike) I can't maneuver!
Stay on target.
We're too close.
Stay on target!
Loosen up!
Gold Five to Red Leader...
(over headset) Lost Tiree, lost Dutch.
I copy, Gold Five.
They came from behind...
We've analyzed their attack, sir, and there is a danger. Should I have your ship standing by?
Evacuate? In out moment of triumph? I think you overestimate their chances!
(over speaker) Rebel base, three minutes and closing.
Red Group, this is Red Leader.
(over speaker) Rendezvous at mark six point one.
(over speaker) This is Red Two. Flying toward you.
(over speaker) Red Three, standing by.
(over headset) Red Leader, this is Base One. Keep half your group out of range for the next run.
(over headset) Copy, Base One. Luke, take Red Two and Three. Hold up here and wait for my signal... to start your run.
This is it!
We should be able to see it by now.
Keep your eyes open for those fighters!
There's too much interference!
Red Five, can you see them from where you are?
No sign of any... wait!
(over headset) Coming in point three five.
I see them.
I'm in range.
Target's coming up!
Just hold them off for a few seconds.
Close up formation.
You'd better let her loose.
Almost there!
I can't hold them!
It's away!
(over speaker) It's a hit!
(over speaker) Negative.
Negative! It didn't go in. It just impacted on the surface.
(over headset) Red Leader, we're right above you. Turn to point...
"...oh-five
(over headset) Stay there...
...I just lost my starboard engine.
(over headset) Get set to make your attack run.
Rebel base, one minute and closing.
(over speaker) Biggs, Wedge, let's close it up. We're going in. We're going in full throttle.
Right with you, boss.
Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time?
It'll be just like Beggar's Canyon back home.
We'll stay back far enough to cover you.
(over headset) My scope shows the tower, but I can't see the exhaust port! Are you sure the computer can hit it?
Watch yourself! Increase speed full throttle!
What about the tower?
You worry about those fighters! I'll worry about the tower!
(to ARTOO) ARTOO... that, that stabilizer's broken loose again! See if you can't lock it down!
(over speaker) I'm hit! I can't stay with you.
(over speaker) Get clear, Wedge.
You can't do any more good back there!
Sorry!
Let him go! Stay on the leader!
Hurry, Luke, they're coming in much faster this time. I can't hold them!
ARTOO, try and increase the power!
(over headset) Hurry up, Luke!
Wait!
Rebel base, thirty seconds and closing.
I'm on the leader.
Hang on, ARTOO!
Use the Force, Luke.
Let go, Luke.
The Force is strong with this one!
Luke, trust me.
(over speaker) His computer's off. Luke, you switched off your targeting computer. What's wrong?
(over speaker) Nothing. I'm all right.
I've lost ARTOO!
The Death Star has cleared the planet. The Death Star has cleared the planet.
Rebel base, in range.
You may fire when ready.
Commence primary ignition.
I have you now.
What?
(yelling) Yahoo!
Look out!
(into mike) You're all clear, kid.
(over speaker) Now let's blow this thing and go home!
Stand by to fire at Rebel base.
Standing by.
Great shot, kid. That was one in a million.
Remember, the Force will be with you... always.
Luke! Luke! Luke!
(laughing) Hey! Hey!
(laughing) I knew you'd come back! I just knew it!
Well, I wasn't gonna let you get all the credit and take all the reward.
(laughing) Hey, I knew there was more to you than money.
Oh, no!
Oh, my! ARTOO! Can you hear me? Say something! (to mechanic) You can repair him, can't you?
We'll get to work on him right away.
You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or gears will help, I'll gladly donate them.
He'll be all right.
(into comlink) Echo Three to Echo Seven. Han, old buddy, do you read me?
(over comlink) Loud and clear, kid. What's up?
(into comlink) Well, I finished my circle. I don't pick up any life readings.
(over comlink) There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. The sensors are placed, I'm going back.
(into comlink) Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take long.
Hey, steady girl. What's the matter? You smell something?
Aaargh!
Chewie!
All right, don't lose your temper. I'll come right back and give you a hand.
Solo?
No sign of life out there, General. The sensors are in place. You'll know if anything comes around.
Commander Skywalker reported in yet?
No. He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him.
(indicates radar screen) With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.
General, I've got to leave. I can't stay anymore.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Well, there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabba the Hut, I'm a dead man.
A death mark's not an easy thing to live with. You're a good fighter, Solo. I hate to lose you.
Thank you, General.
(with feeling) Well, Your Highness, I guess this is it.
That's right.
(cooly) Well, don't get all mushy on me. So long, Princess.
Han!
Yes, Your Highnessness?
I thought you decided to stay.
Well, the bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind.
Han, we need you!
We?
Yes.
Oh, what about you need?
(mystified) I need? I don't know what you're talking about.
(shakes his head, fed up) You probably don't.
And what precisely am I supposed to know?
Come on! You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me.
Yes. You're a great help to us. You're a natural leader...
No! That's not it. Come on. Aahhh - uh huh! Come on.
You're imagining things.
Am I? Then why are you following me? Afraid I was going to leave without giving you a goodbye kiss?
I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.
I can arrange that. You could use a good kiss!
Don't try to blame me. I didn't ask you to turn on the thermal heater. I merely commented that it was freezing in the princess' chamber. But it's supposed to be freezing. How are we going to dry out all her clothes? I really don't know.
Oh, switch off.
(to Chewie) Why do you take this apart now? I'm trying to get us out of here and you pull both of these.
Excuse me, sir.
(to Chewie) Put them back together right now.
Might I have a word with you, please?
What do you want?
Well, it's Princess Leia, sir. She's been trying to get you on the communicator.
I turned it off. I don't want to talk to her.
Oh. Well, Princess Leia is wondering about Master Luke. He hasn't come back yet. She doesn't know where he is.
I don't know where he is.
Nobody knows where he is.
"What do you mean, ""nobody knows""?"
Well, uh, you see...
Deck Officer. Deck Officer!
Excuse me, sir. Might I inqu...
Yes, sir?
Do you know where Commander Skywalker is?
I haven't seen him. It's possible he came in through the south entrance.
It's possible? Why don't you go find out? It's getting dark out there.
Yes, sir.
Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire what's going on?
Why not?
Impossible man. Come along, ARTOO, let's find Princess Leia. Between ourselves, I think Master Luke is in considerable danger.
Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in through the south entrance. He might have forgotten to check in.
Not likely. Are the speeders ready?
Not yet. We're having some trouble adapting them to the cold.
Then we'll have to go out on Tauntauns.
Sir, the temperature's dropping too rapidly.
That's right. And my friends out in it.
I'll cover sector twelve. Have com-control set screen alpha.
Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first marker.
Then I'll see you in hell!
You must come along now, ARTOO. There's really nothing more we can do. And my joints are freezing up.
Don't say thing like that! Of course we'll see Master Luke again. He'll be quite all right, you'll see. (to himself) Stupid little short-circuit. He'll be quite all right.
Sir, all the patrols are in. There's still no contact from Skywalker or Solo.
Mistress Leia, ARTOO says he's been quite unable to pick up any signals, although he does admit that his own range is far too weak to abandon all hope.
Your Highness, there's nothing more we can do tonight. The shield doors must be closed.
Close the doors.
Yes, sir.
ARTOO says the chances of survival are seven hundred seventy-five...to one.
Actually, ARTOO has been known to make mistakes... from time to time. Oh, dear, oh, dear. Don't worry about Master Luke. I'm sure he'll be all right. He's quite clever, you know... for a human being.
Luke... Luke.
(weakly) Ben?
You will go to the Dagobah system.
Dagobah system?
There you will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master who instructed me.
(groaning faintly) Ben... Ben.
Luke! Luke! Don't do this, Luke. Come on, give me a sign here.
Not much time.
(moaning) Ben... Ben...
Hang on, kid.
Dagobah system...
(reeling from the odor) Whew...
Dagobah...
This may smell bad, kid...
(moaning) Yoda...
...but it will keep you warm... til I get the shelter built. (struggling to get Luke inside the carcass) Ooh... I thought they smelled bad on the outside!
(into transmitter) Echo Base... I've got something! Not much, but it could be a life form.
(into transmitter) This is Rogue Two. this is Rogue Two. Captain Solo, so you copy? Commander Skywalker, do you copy? This is Rogue Two.
(filtered over Zev's receiver) Good morning. Nice of you guys to drop by.
(switching transmitters) Echo Base... this is Rogue Two. I found them. Repeat, I found them.
Master Luke, sir, it's so good to see you fully functional again.
ARTOO expresses his relief, also.
How are you feeling, kid? You don't look so bad to me. In fact, you look strong enough to pull the ears off a Gundark.
Thanks to you.
That's two you owe me, junior.
Well your Worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a little while longer.
(haughtily) I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated the energy shield.
That's a good story. I think you just can't bear to let a gorgeous guy like me out of your sight.
I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brain.
Laugh it up, fuzzball. But you didn't see us alone in the south passage.
She expressed her true feelings for me.
My...! Why, you stuck up,... half- witted... scruffy-looking ...nerf-herder!
Who's scruffy-looking? (to Luke) I must have hit pretty close to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid?
Why, I guess you don't know everything about women yet?
(over loudspeaker) Headquarters personnel, report to command center.
Take it easy.
Excuse us, please.
Princess... we have a visitor.
We've picked up something outside the base in zone twelve, moving east.
It's metal.
Then it couldn't be one of those creatures that attacked Luke.
It could be a speeder, one of ours.
No. Wait - there's something very weak coming through.
Sir, I am fluent in six million forms of communication. This signal is not used by the Alliance. It could be an Imperial code.
It isn't friendly, whatever it is. Come on, Chewie, let's check it out.
Send Rogues Ten and Eleven to station three-eight.
(over comlink) Afraid there's not much left.
(into comlink) What was it?
(over comlink) Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It must have had a self-destruct.
(into comlink) An Imperial probe droid.
(over comlink) It's a good bet the Empire knows we're here.
We'd better start the evacuation.
Admiral.
Yes, Captain
I think we've got something, sir. The report is only a fragment from a probe droid in the Hoth system, but it's the best lead we've had.
(irritated) We have thousands of probe droids searching the galaxy. I want proof, not leads!
The visuals indicate life readings.
It could mean anything. If we followed every lead...
But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed to be devoid of human forms.
You found something?
Yes, my lord.
(studying the image on the console screen) That's it. The Rebels are there.
My lord, there are so many uncharted settlements. It could be smugglers, it could be...
That is the system. And I'm sure Skywalker is with them. Set your course for the Hoth system. General Veers, prepare you men.
Groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the speeders. As soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will give clearance for immediate launch.
Right, sir.
(into comlink, to Chewie) Okay, that's it. Try it... Off! Turn it off! Turn it off! Off!
Sir, it will take quite a while to evacuate the T-forty- sevens.
Well, forget the heavy equipment. There's plenty of time to get the smaller modules on the transports.
Take care, sir.
Thanks.
Chewie, take care of yourself, okay?
Hi, kid. (to droid) There's got to be a reason for it. Check it at the other end. Wait a second. (to Luke) You all right?
Yeah.
Be careful.
You, too.
General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace in sector four.
Reroute all power to the energy shield. We've got to hold them till all transports are away. Prepare for ground assault.
What is it, General?
My lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed. Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect any bombardment.
(angrily) The Rebels are alerted to our presence. Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close to the system.
He felt surprise was wiser...
He is as clumsy as he is stupid. General, prepare your troops for a surface attack.
Yes, my lord.
Lord Vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed, and we're preparing to... Aaagh!
You have failed me for the last time, Admiral. Captain Piett.
Yes, my lord.
Make ready to land out troops beyond the energy shield and deploy the fleet so that nothing gets off that system. You are in command now, Admiral Piett.
Thank you, Lord Vader.
All troop carriers will assemble at the north entrance. The heavy transport ships will leave as soon as they're loaded. Only two fighter escorts per ship. The energy shield can only be opened for a short time, so you'll have to stay very close to your transports.
Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?
The ion cannon will fire several shots to make sure that any enemy ships will be out of your flight path. When you've gotten past the energy shield, proceed directly to the rendezvous point. Understood?
(in unison) Right. Okay.
Good luck.
Okay. Everyone to your stations. Let's go!
Their primary target will be the power generators. Prepare to open the shield.
Sir, Rebel ships are coming into our sector.
Good. Our first catch of the day.
Stand by, ion control... Fire
(over loudspeaker) The first transport is away.
Feeling all right, sir?
Just like new, Dack. How about you?
Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empire myself.
(quietly, strapping in) I know what you mean.
Echo Station Three-T-Eight.
(over comlink) We have spotted Imperial walkers!
Imperial walkers on the north ridge.
(into comlink) Echo station Five-Seven. We're on our way
(into comlink) All right, boys, keep tight now.
Luke, I have no approach vector. I'm not set.
Steady, Dack. Attack pattern delta. Go now!
All right, I'm coming in
(into comlink) Hobbie, you still with me
That armor's too strong for blasters
(into comlink) Rogue Group, use your harpoons and tow cables. Go for the legs. It might be our only chance of stopping them. (to Dack) All right, stand by, Dack.
Luke, we've got a malfunction in fire control. I'll have to cut in the auxiliary.
Just hang on. Hang on, Dack. Get ready to fire that tow cable.
Dack? Dack!
Yes, Lord Vader. I've reached the main power generator. The shield will be down in moments. You may start your landing.
(into comlink) Rogue Three.
(into comlink) Copy, Rogue Leader
(over comlink) Wedge, I've lost my gunner. You'll have to make this shot. I'll cover for you. Set your harpoon. Follow me on the next pass.
(into comlink) Coming around, Rogue Leader.
(into comlink) Steady, Rogue Two
(to gunner) Activate harpoon.
(to gunner) Good shot, Janson.
One more pass.
Coming around. Once more
Once more.
Cable out! Let her go!
Detach cable.
Cable detached
Come on!
(into comlink) Whooha! That got him!
(into comlink) I see it, Wedge. Good work.
I don't think we can protect two transports at a time.
It's risky, but we can't hold out much longer. We have no choice.
(into comlink) Launch patrols.
(to an aide) Evacuate remaining ground staff.
No, no! No! This one goes there, that one goes there. Right?
ARTOO, you take good care of Master Luke now, understand? And... do take good care of yourself. Oh, dear, oh, dear.
All troops will debark for ground assault. Prepare to target the main generator.
(into comlink) Rogue Two, are you all right?
(into comlink) Yeah. I'm with you, Rogue Leader.
(into comlink) We'll set harpoon. I'll cover for you.
(into comlink) Coming around.
(into comlink) Watch that cross fire, boys.
(into comlink) Set for position three. (to gunner) Steady.
(over comlink) Stay tight and low.
(into comlink) Hobbie, I've been hit!
You all right?
Why are you still here?
I heard the command center had been hit.
You got your clearance to leave.
Don't worry. I'll leave. First I'm going to get you to your ship.
Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our only hope.
(to controller) Send all troops in sector twelve to the south slope to protect the fighters.
(over loudspeaker) Imperial troops have entered the base.
Come on... that's it.
(to head controller) Give the evacuation code signal. And get to your transports!
K-one-zero... all troops disengage.
(to Han and Leia) Oh! Wait for me!
Begin retreat!
Fall back!
Distance to power generators?
One-seven, decimal two-eight.
Target. Maximum fire power.
(into comlink) Transport, this is Solo. Better take off - I can't get to you. I'll get the princess out on the Falcon.
But... but... but... where are you going? Uh... come back!!
Wait! Wait for me! Wait! Stop!
(exasperated) How typical.
Come on.
Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident!
Wait! Wait!
(to Chewie) How's this?
Would it helped if I got out and pushed?
It might.
Captain Solo, Captain Solo... sir, might I suggest that you...
It can wait.
This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.
This baby's got a few surprises left in her, sweetheart.
Come on! Come on! Switch over. Let's hope we don't have a burnout.
See?
Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it.
Punch it!
ARTOO! Get her ready for takeoff.
Good luck, Luke. See you at the rendezvous.
Don't worry, ARTOO. We're going, we're going.
(into comlink) There's nothing wrong, ARTOO. I'm just setting a new course.
(into comlink) We're not going to regroup with the others.
(into comlink) We're going to the Dagobah system.
(into comlink) Yes, ARTOO?
(into comlink, chuckling) That's all right. I'd like to keep it on manual control for a while.
(harried) I saw them! I saw them!
Saw what?
Star Destroyers, two of them, coming right at us.
Sir, sir! Might I suggest...
(to Leia) Shut him up or shut him down! (to Chewie) Check the deflector shield!
Oh, great. Well, we can still outmaneuver them.
Take evasive action!
Prepare to make the jump to light- speed.
But, sir!
They're getting closer!
(with a gleam in his eye) Oh yeah? Watch this.
Watch what?
I think we're in trouble.
If I may say so, sir, I noticed earlier that the hyperdrive motivator has been damaged. It's impossible to go to light-speed!
We're in trouble!
Horizontal boosters...!
Alluvial dampers...! Well that's not it.
Bring me the hydrospanners!
I don't know how we're going to get out of this one.
Oww! Chewie!
That was no laser blast! Something hit us.
(over comlink) Han, get up here!
Come on, Chewie!
Asteroids!
Oh, no! Chewie, set two-seven- one.
What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid field?
They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they?
You don't have to do this to impress me.
Sir, the possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid field is approximately three thousand, seven hundred and twenty to one.
Never tell me the odds!
"You said you wanted to be around when I made a mistake
I take it back. We're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer.
I'm not going to argue with that.
Pulverized?
I'm going in closer to one of those big ones.
Closer?
Closer?!
Oh, this is suicide!
There. That looks pretty good.
What looks pretty good?
Yeah. That'll do nicely.
(to Leia) Excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going?
I hope you know what you're doing.
Yeah, me too.
(into comlink) Yes, that's it. Dagobah.
(into comlink) No, I'm not going to change my mind about this. (getting a little nervous) I'm not picking up any cities or technology. Massive life-form readings, though. There's something alive down there...
(into comlink) Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.
(into comlink) I know, I know! All the scopes are dead. I can't see a thing! Just hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle...
No, ARTOO, you stay put. I'll have a look around.
ARTOO?
ARTOO! Where are you?
ARTOO! You be more careful.
ARTOO - that way!
ARTOO!
Oh, no! Are you all right? Come on. You're lucky you don't taste very good. Anything broken?
If you're saying coming here was a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree with you. Oh, ARTOO, what are we doing here? It's like... something out of a dream, or, I don't know. Maybe I'm just going crazy.
Yes, Admiral?
Our ships have sighted the Millennium Falcon, lord. But... it has entered an asteroid field and we cannot risk...
(interrupting) Asteroids do not concern me, Admiral. I want that ship and not excuses.
Yes, lord.
I'm going to shut down everything but the emergency power systems.
Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but... does that include shutting me down, too?
No, I need you to talk to the Falcon, find out what's wrong with the hyperdrive.
Sir, it's quite possible this asteroid is not entirely stable.
Not entirely stable? I'm glad you're here to tell us these things. Chewie, take the professor in the back and plug him into the hyperdrive.
Oh! Sometimes I just don't understand human behavior. After all, I'm only trying to do my job in the most...
Let go.
Sshh!
Let go, please.
Don't get excited.
Captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited.
Sorry, sweetheart. We haven't got time for anything else.
Ready for some power? Okay. Let's see now. Put that in there. There you go.
(sighs) Now all I have to do is find this Yoda... if he even exists.
Still... there's something familiar about this place. I feel like... I don't know...
Feel like what?
(looking at the creature) Like we're being watched!
Away with your weapon! I mean you no harm.
I am wondering, why are you here?
I'm looking for someone.
Looking? Found someone, you have, I would say, hmmm?
(Trying to keep from smiling) Right.
Help you I can. Yes, mmmm.
I don't think so. I'm looking for a great warrior.
Ahhh! A great warrior. (laughs and shakes his head) Wars not make one great.
Put that down. Hey! That's my dinner!
How you get so big, eating food of this kind?
Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you just...
(teasing) Aww, cannot get your ship out?
Hey, you could have broken this. Don't do that. Ohhh... you're making a mess. Hey, give me that!
(retreating with the lamp) Mine! Or I will help you not.
I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it to get out of this slimy mudhole.
Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is.
Ah, ah, ah!
Oh, ARTOO, let him have it!
Mine! Mine!
ARTOO!
Mine!
Mine!
(fed up) Now will you move along, little fella? We're got a lot of work to do.
No! No, no! Stay and help you, I will. (laughs) Find your friend, hmm?
I'm not looking for a friend. I'm looking for a Jedi Master.
Oohhh. Jedi Master. Yoda. You seek Yoda.
You know him?
Mmm. Take you to him, I will. (laughs) Yes, yes. But now, we must eat. Come. Good food. Come.
(in the distance) Come, come.
Stay here and watch after the camp, ARTOO.
Oh, where is ARTOO when I need him?
Sir, I don't know where your ship learned to communicate, but it has the most peculiar dialect. I believe, sir, it says that the power coupling on the negative axis has been polarized. I'm afraid you'll have to replace it.
Well, of course I'll have to replace it.
Here! And Chewie...
(continuing) ... I think we'd better replace the negative power coupling.
Hey, Your Worship, I'm only trying to help.
(still struggling) Would you please stop calling me that?
Sure, Leia.
Oh, you make it so difficult sometimes.
I do, I really do. You could be a little nicer, though. (he watches her reaction) Come on, admit it. Sometimes you think I'm all right.
Occasionally... (a little smile, haltingly) ... when you aren't acting like a scoundrel.
(laughs) Scoundrel? Scoundrel? I like the sound of that.
Stop that.
Stop what?
Stop that! My hands are dirty.
My hands are dirty, too. What are you afraid of?
(looking right into his eyes) Afraid?
You're trembling.
I'm not trembling.
You like me because I'm a scoundrel. There aren't enough scoundrels in your life.
I happen to like nice men.
I'm a nice man.
No, you're not. You're...
Sir, sir! I've isolated the reverse power flux coupling.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.
(in hologram) ... and that, Lord Vader, was the last time they appeared in any of our scopes. Considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they must have been destroyed.
No, Captain, they're alive. I want every ship available to sweep the asteroid field until they are found.
Lord Vader.
Yes, Admiral, what is it?
The Emperor commands you make contact with him.
Move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a clear transmission.
Yes, my lord.
What is thy bidding, my master?
There is a great disturbance in the Force.
I have felt it.
We have a new enemy - Luke Skywalker.
Yes, my master.
He could destroy us.
He's just a boy. Obi-Wan can no longer help him.
The Force is strong with him. The son of Skywalker must not become a Jedi.
If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.
Yes. Yes. He would be a great asset. Can it be done?
He will join us or die, my master.
Look, I'm sure it's delicious. I just don't understand why we can't see Yoda now.
Patience! For the Jedi it is time to eat as well. Eat, eat. Hot. Good food, hm? Good, hmm?
How far away is Yoda? Will it take us long to get there?
Not far. Yoda not far. Patience. Soon you will be with him. (tasting food from the pot) Rootleaf, I cook. Why wish you become Jedi? Hm?
Mostly because of my father, I guess.
Ah, your father. Powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.
(a little angry) Oh, come on. How could you know my father? You don't even know who I am. (fed up) Oh, I don't know what I'm doing here. We're wasting our time.
(irritated) I cannot teach him. The boy has no patience.
He will learn patience.
Hmmm. Much anger in him, like his father.
Was I any different when you taught me?
Hah. He is not ready.
Yoda! I am ready. I... Ben! I can be a Jedi. Ben, tell him I'm ready.
Ready, are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained! A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. (to the invisible Ben, indicating Luke) This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away... to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh! Excitement. Heh! A Jedi craves not these things. (turning to Luke) You are reckless!
So was I, if you'll remember.
He is too old. Yes, too old to begin the training.
But I've learned so much.
(sighs) Will he finished what he begins?
I won't fail you - I'm not afraid.
(turns slowly toward him) Oh, you will be. You will be.
Sir, if I may venture an opinion...
I'm not really interested in your opinion, Threepio.
(out of breath) There's something out there.
Where?
Outside, in the cave.
There it is. Listen! Listen!
I'm going out there.
Are you crazy?!
I just got this bucket back together. I'm not going to let something tear it apart.
Then I'm going with you.
I think it might be better if I stay here and guard the ship. (hears another mysterious noise) Oh, no.
This ground sure feels strange. It doesn't feel like rock at all.
There's an awful lot of moisture in here.
I don't know. I have a bad feeling about this.
Yeah.
(to Leia) Watch out!
Yeah, that's what I thought. Mynock. Chewie, check the rest of the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached. They're chewing on the power cables.
Mynocks?
Go on inside. We'll clean them off if there are any more.
Ohhh! Go away! Go away! Beastly little thing. Shoo! Shoo!
Wait a minute...
All right, Chewie, let's get out of here!
The Empire is still out there. I don't think it's wise to...
(interrupting) No time to discuss this in committee.
(angry) I am not a committee!
You can't make the jump to light- speed in this asteroid field...
Sit down, sweetheart. We're taking off!
Look!
I see it, I see it.
We're doomed!
The cave is collapsing.
This is no cave.
What?
Run! Yes. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger... fear... aggression. The dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.
Vader. Is the dark side stronger?
No... no... no. Quicker, easier, more seductive.
But how am I to know the good side from the bad?
You will know. When you are calm, at peace. Passive. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.
But tell me why I can't...
(interrupting) No, no, there is no why. Nothing more will I teach you today. Clear your mind of questions. Mmm. Mmmmmmmm.
There's something not right here.
I feel cold, death.
That place... is strong with the dark side of the Force. A domain of evil it is. In you must go.
What's in there?
Only what you take with you.
Your weapons... you will not need them.
Bounty hunters. We don't need that scum.
Yes, sir.
Those Rebels won't escape us.
Sir, we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger.
Right.
... there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon. You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want them alive. No disintegrations.
As you wish.
Lord Vader! My lord, we have them.
Oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field.
Let's get out of here. Ready for light-speed? One... two... three!
(frantic) It's not fair!
The transfer circuits are working. It's not my fault!
(almost expecting it) No light-speed?
It's not my fault.
Sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield. One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.
Turn her around.
I said turn her around! I'm going to put all power in the front shield.
You're going to attack them?!
Sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an Imperial Star Destroyer...
Shut up!
They're moving to attack position! Shields up!
Track them. They may come around for another pass.
Captain Needa, the ship no longer appears on our scopes.
They can't have disappeared. No ship that small has a cloaking device.
Well, there's no trace of them, sir.
Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit.
(drawing a breath) Get a shuttle ready. I shall assume full responsibility for losing them, and apologize to Lord Vader. Meanwhile, continue to scan the area.
Yes, Captain Needa.
Use the Force. Yes...
Now... the stone. Feel it.
Concentrate!
Oh, no. We'll never get it out now.
So certain are you. Always with you it cannot be done. Hear you nothing that I say?
Master, moving stones around is one thing. This is totally different.
No! No different! Only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you have learned.
(focusing, quietly) All right, I'll give it a try.
No! Try not. Do. Or do not. There is no try.
(panting heavily) I can't. It's too big.
Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hm? Mmmm.
And well you should not. For my ally in the Force. And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we... (Yoda pinches Luke's shoulder) ... not this crude matter. (a sweeping gesture) You must feel the Force around you. (gesturing) Here, between you... me... the tree... the rock... everywhere! Yes, even between this land and that ship!
(discouraged) You want the impossible
I don't... I don't believe it.
That is why you fail.
Apology accepted, Captain Needa.
Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and found nothing. If the Millennium Falcon went into light- speed, it'll be on the other side of the galaxy by now.
Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along their last know trajectory.
Yes, my lord. We'll find them.
Don't fail me again, Admiral.
Alert all commands. Deploy the fleet.
Captain Solo, this time you have gone too far. (Chewie growls) No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca. Why doesn't anyone listen to me?
(to Chewie) The fleet is beginning to break up. Go back and stand by the manual release for the landing claw.
I really don't see how that is going to help. Surrender is a perfectly acceptable alternative in extreme circumstances. The Empire may be gracious enough...
Thank you.
What did you have in mind for your next move?
Well, if they follow standard Imperial procedure, they'll dump their garbage before they go to light-speed, then we just float away.
With the rest of the garbage. Then what?
Then we've got to find a safe port somewhere around here. Got any ideas?
No. Where are we?
The Anoat system.
Anoat system. There's not much there.
No. Well, wait. This is interesting. Lando.
Lando system?
Lando's not a system, he's a man. Lando Calrissian. He's a card player, gambler, scoundrel. You'd like him.
Thanks.
Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it.
(reading from the computer) A mining colony?
Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine. Lando conned somebody out of it. We go back a long way, Lando and me.
Can you trust him?
No. But he has no love for the Empire, I can tell you that.
(into intercom) Here we go, Chewie. Stand by. Detach!
You do have your moments. Not many, but you have them.
Concentrate... feel the Force flow. Yes. Good. Calm, yes. Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future... the past. Old friends long gone.
Han! Leia!
(shaking his head) Hmm. Control, control. You must learn control.
I saw... I saw a city in the clouds.
Mmm. Friends you have there.
They were in pain.
It is the future you see.
Future? Will they die?
Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future.
I've got to go to them.
Decide you must how to serve them best. If you leave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they have fought and suffered.
(into transmitter) No, I don't have a landing permit. I'm trying to reach Lando Calrissian.
(into transmitter) Whoa! Wait a minute! Let me explain.
You will not deviate from your present course.
Rather touchy, aren't they?
I thought you knew this person.
(to Chewie) Well, that was a long time ago. I'm sure he's forgotten about that.
Permission granted to land on Platform Three-two-seven.
(into transmitter) Thank you.
There's nothing to worry about. We go way back, Lando and me.
Who's worried?
Oh. No one to meet us.
I don't like this.
Well, what would you like?
Well, they did let us land.
Look, don't worry. Everything's going to be fine. Trust me.
See? My friend. (to Chewie) Keep your eyes open, okay?
Why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler! You've got a lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled.
(laughs) How you doing, you old pirate? So good to see you! I never thought I'd catch up with you again. Where you been?
Well, he seems very friendly.
(wary) Yes... very friendly.
What are you doing here?
(gestures toward the Falcon) Ahh... repairs. I thought you could help me out.
(in mock panic) What have you done to my ship?
Your ship? Hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square.
Hello. What have we here? Welcome. I'm Lando Calrissian. I'm the administrator of this facility. And who might you be?
Leia.
Welcome, Leia.
All right, all right, you old smoothie.
Hello, sir. I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations. My facilities are at your...
Well, really!
What's wrong with the Falcon?
Hyperdrive.
I'll get my people to work on it.
Good.
You know, that ship saved my life quite a few times. She's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.
How's the gas mine? Is it paying off for you?
Oh, not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very self-sufficient. And I've had supply problems of every kind. I've had labor difficulties... (catches Han grinning at him) What's so funny?
You. Listen to you - you sound like a businessman, a responsible leader. Who'd have thought that, huh?
You know, seeing you sure brings back a few things.
Yeah.
(shakes his head) Yeah. I'm responsible these days. It's the price you pay for being successful.
Oh! Nice to see a familiar face.
(mumbles) E chu ta!
How rude!
That sounds like an R2 unit in there. I wonder if...
Hello? How interesting. Oh, my.
(from within) Who are you?
Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I... I didn't mean to intrude. No, no, please don't get up. No!
Luke! You must complete the training.
I can't keep the vision out of my head. They're my friends. I've got to help them.
You must not go!
But Han and Leia will die if I don't.
You don't know that.
Even Yoda cannot see their fate.
But I can help them! I feel the Force!
But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, when you will be tempted by the dark side of the Force.
Yes, yes. To Obi-Wan you listen. The cave. Remember your failure at the cave!
But I've learned so much since then. Master Yoda, I promise to return and finish what I've begun. You have my word.
It is you and your abilities the Emperor wants. that is why your friends are made to suffer.
And that is why I have to go.
Luke, I don't want to lose you to the Emperor the way I lost Vader.
You won't.
Stopped they must be. On this all depends. Only a fully trained Jedi Knight with the Force as his ally will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path, as Vader did, you will become an agent of evil.
Patience.
And sacrifice Han and Leia?
If you honor what they fight for...yes!
If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. I cannot interfere.
I understand. (he moves to his X-wing) ARTOO, fire up the converters.
Luke, don't give in to hate - that leads to the dark side.
Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can.
I will. And I'll return. I promise.
(sighs) Told you, I did. Reckless is he. Now matters are worse.
That boy is our last hope.
(looks up) No. There is another.
The ship is almost finished. Two or Three more things and we're in great shape.
The sooner the better. Something's wrong here. No one has seen or knows anything about Threepio. He's been gone too long to have gotten lost.
Relax. I'll talk to Lando and see what I can find out.
I don't trust Lando.
Well, I don't trust him, either. But he is my friend. Besides, we'll soon be gone.
And then you're as good as gone, aren't you?
What happened?
Where? Found him in a junk pile?
Oh, what a mess. Chewie, do you think you can repair him?
Lando's got people who can fix him.
No, thanks.
I'm sorry. Am I interrupting anything?
Not really.
You look absolutely beautiful. You truly belong here with us among the clouds.
(coolly) Thank you.
Will you join me for a little refreshment?
Everyone's invited, of course.
Having trouble with you droid?
No. No problem. Why?
So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into the... uh... jurisdiction of the Empire.
So you're part of the mining guild then?
No, not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed... which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves.
Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this little operation and shut you down?
That's always been a danger looming like a shadow over everything we've built here. But things have developed that will insure security. I've just made a deal that will keep the Empire out of here forever.
We would be honored if you would join us.
I had no choice. They arrived right before you did. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, too.
(into comlink) No, Threepio's with them.
(into comlink) Just hang on. We're almost there.
Mmmm. Oh, my. Uh, I, uh - Take this off! I, uh, don't mean to intrude here. I, don't, no, no, no... Please don't get up. No!
Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the others. Oh, no! I've been shot!
Lord Vader.
(to Fett) You may take Captain Solo to Jabba the Hut after I have Skywalker.
He's no good to me dead.
He will not be permanently damaged.
Lord Vader, what about Leia and the Wookiee?
They must never again leave this city.
That was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving Han to this bounty hunter!
Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.
No.
Good. It would be unfortunate if I had to leave a garrison here.
This deal's getting worse all the time.
Oh, yes, that's very good. I like that. Oh! Something's not right because now I can't see. Wait. Wait! Oh, my! what have you done? I'm backwards, you stupid furball. Only an overgrown mophead like you would be stupid enough...
I feel terrible.
Why are they doing this?
They never even asked me any questions.
Lando.
Get out of here, Lando!
Shut up and listen! Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me.
Over to you?
They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.
What about Han?
Vader's giving him to the bounty hunter.
Vader wants us all dead.
He doesn't want you at all. He's after somebody called Skywalker.
Luke?
Lord Vader has set a trap for him.
And we're the bait.
Well, he's on his way.
Perfect. You fixed us all pretty good, didn't you? (spits it out) My friend!
Stop! I've done all I can. I'm sorry I couldn't do better, but I have my own problems.
Yeah, you're a real hero.
(dabs at his wound) You certainly have a way with people.
This facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze Skywalker for his journey to the Emperor.
Lord Vader, ship approaching. X-wing class.
Good. Monitor Skywalker and allow him to land.
Lord Vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing. If you put him in there, it might kill him.
I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged. We will test it... on Captain Solo.
If only you had attached my legs, I wouldn't be in this ridiculous position. Now, remember, Chewbacca, you have a responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish.
(to Lando) What's going on... buddy?
You're being put into carbon freeze.
What if he doesn't survive? He's worth a lot to me.
The Empire will compensate you if he dies. Put him in!
Oh, no! No, no, no! Stop, Chewbacca, stop...!
Stop, Chewie, stop! Do you hear me? Stop!
Yes, stop, please! I'm not ready to die.
Chewie! Chewie, this won't help me. Hey!
Save your strength. There'll be another time. The princess - you have to take care of her. You hear me?
I love you!
I know.
What... what's going on? Turn round, Chewbacca, I can't see. Oh... they've encased him in carbonite. He should be quite well-protected - if he survives the freezing process, that is.
Well, Calrissian, did he survive?
Yes, he's alive. And in perfect hibernation.
He's all yours bounty hunter. Reset the chamber for Skywalker.
Skywalker has just landed, my lord.
Good. See to it that he finds his way here. Calrissian, take the princess and the Wookiee to my ship.
You said they'd be left in the city under my supervision.
I am altering the deal. Pray I don't alter it any further.
Luke! Luke, don't - it's a trap! It's a trap!
The Force is with you, young Skywalker. But you are not a Jedi yet.
Well done. Hold them in the security tower - and keep it quiet. Move.
What do you think you're doing?
We're getting out of here.
I knew all along it had to be a mistake.
Do you think that after what you did to Han we're going to trust you?
(choking) I had no choice...
(to Chewie) What are you doing? Trust him, trust him!
Oh, so we understand, don't we, Chewie? He had no choice.
I'm just trying to help...
We don't need any of your help.
(choking) H-a-a-a...
What?
It sounds like Han.
There's still a chance to save Han... I mean, at the East Platform...
Chewie.
(to Lando) I'm terribly sorry about all this. After all, he's only a Wookiee.
Put Captain Solo in the cargo hold.
ARTOO! ARTOO! Where have you been?
Turn around, you wooly...! (to ARTOO) Hurry, hurry! We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter!
Well, at least your still in one piece! Look what happened to me!
Oh, no! Chewie, they're behind you!
You have learned much, young one.
You'll find I'm full of surprises.
Your destiny lies with me, Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true.
No!
All to easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperor thought.
Impressive... most impressive.
Obi-Wan has taught you well. You have controlled your fear... now release your anger.
Only your hatred can destroy me.
The security codes has been changed!
ARTOO, you can tell the computer to override the security system.
Attention! This is LANDO Calrissian. The Empire has takes control of the city. I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive.
This way.
Don't blame me. I'm an interpreter. I'm not supposed to know a power socket from a computer terminal.
What are you talking about? We're not interested in the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed! Just open the door, you stupid lump.
(to ARTOO) I never doubted you for a second. Wonderful!
Ouch! Oh! Ah! That hurt. Bend down, you thoughtless... Ow!
Leia! Go!
I thought that hairy beast would be the end of me. Of course, I've looked better.
You are beaten. It is useless to resist. Don't let yourself be destroyed as Obi-Wan did.
There is no escape. Don't make me destroy you. You do not yet realize your importance. You have only begun to discover your power. Join me and I will complete your training. With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy.
I'll never join you!
If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father.
He told me enough! It was you who killed him.
No. I am your father.
No. No. That's not true! That's impossible!
Search your feelings. You know it to be true.
No! No! No!
Luke. You can destroy the Emperor. He has foreseen this. It is your destiny. Join me, and together we can rule the galaxy as father and son. Come with me. It is the only way.
Ben... Ben, please!
Ben. Leia!
Hear me! Leia!
Luke... We've got to go back.
What?
I know where Luke is.
But what about those fighter?
Chewie, just do it.
But what about Vader?
All right, all right, all right.
Bring my shuttle.
(pointing out the cockpit window) Look, someone's up there.
It's Luke. Chewie, slow down. Slow down and we'll get under him. Lando, open the top hatch.
Okay. Easy, Chewie.
(into intercom) Lando?
(over intercom) Okay, let's go.
Oh, Leia.
All right, Chewie. Let's go.
I'll be back.
Star Destroyer.
All right, Chewie. Ready for light-speed.
If your people fixed the hyperdrive.
All the coordinates are set. It's now or never.
Punch it!
They told me they fixed it. I trusted them to fix it. It's not my fault!
They'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, my lord.
Did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon?
Yes, my lord.
Good. Prepare the boarding party and set your weapons for stun.
Yes, my lord.
Noisy brute. Why don't we just go into light-speed?
We can't? How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated?
The city's central computer told you? ARTOO-Detoo, you know better than to trust a strange computer. Ouch! Pay attention to what you're doing!
Luke.
Father.
Son, come with me.
(moaning) Ben, why didn't you tell me?
(into intercom) Chewie!
It's Vader.
Luke... it is your destiny.
Ben, why didn't you tell me?
Alert all commands. Ready for the tractor beam.
ARTOO, come back at once! You haven't finished with me yet! You don't know how to fix the hyperdrive. Chewbacca can do it. I'm standing here in pieces, and you're having delusions of grandeur!
Oh, you did it!
(into comlink) Luke, we're ready for takeoff.
(over comlink) Good luck, Lando
(into comlink) When we find Jabba the Hut and that bounty hunter, we'll contact you.
(into comlink) I'll meet you at the rendezvous point on Tatooine.
(into comlink) Princess, we'll find Han. I promise.
(into comlink) Chewie, I'll be waiting for your signal.
(into comlink) Take care, you two. May the Force be with you.
Ow!
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting our approach. Deactivate the security shield.
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to proceed.
We're starting our approach.
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.
Yes, sir.
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your presence.
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule.
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.
(aghast) The Emperor's coming here?
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your apparent lack of progress.
We shall double our efforts.
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as I am.
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.
(instantly) There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master Luke.
Tee chuta hhat yudd!
Goodness gracious me!
Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should rush into all this.
Oh, Artoo! Artoo, wait for me!
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! Oh! Oh, no.
Die Wanna Wanga!
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, Jabba the Hutt.
(cont) ...and a gift. (thinks a moment, then to Artoo) Gift, what gift?
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort of things.
Nudd Chaa.
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.
Good morning.
Bo Shuda!
The message, Artoo, the message.
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's life. (Jabba's crowd laughs) With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: these two droids.
What did he say?
(cont) ... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.
(in Huttese subtitled) There will be no bargain.
We're doomed.
(in Huttese subtitled) I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he is.
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...
Yes or no will do.
Oh. Well, yes.
How many languages do you speak?
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can readily...
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
Disintegrated?
(to a Gamorrean guard) Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.
(disappearing) Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in nicely.
Da Eitha!
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...
Boscka!
(in Ubese subtitled) I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.
Oh, no! Chewbacca!
(in Huttese subtitled) At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the reward of twenty-five thousand.
(in Ubese subtitled) I want fifty thousand. No less.
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say? (to Boushh) Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.
(in Huttese subtitled) This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.
Zeebuss.
He agrees!
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.
I can't see.
Your eyesight will return in time.
Where am I?
Jabba's palace.
Who are you?
Someone who loves you.
Leia!
I gotta get you out of here.
What's that? I know that laugh.
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.
(in Huttese subtitled) It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but now you're Bantha fodder.
Look...
(cont Huttese subtitled) Take him away!
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. Don't be a fool!
(in Huttese subtitled) Bring her to me.
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...
(in Huttese subtitled) I'm sure.
Ugh!
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?
Ah! Chew--Chewie!
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less rescue anybody.
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets delusions of grandeur.
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.
I must speak with Jabba.
You will take me to Jabba now!
You serve your master well.
And you will be rewarded.
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.
Master.
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.
(in Huttese subtitled) I told you not to admit him.
I must be allowed to speak.
(in Huttese subtitled) He must be allowed to speak.
(in Huttese subtitled) You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.
(in Huttese subtitled) Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not to underestimate my powers.
Master Luke, you're standing on...
(in Huttese subtitled) There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.
Bascka!
Oh, no! The Rancor!
(in Huttese subtitled) Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.
Han!
Luke!
Are you all right?
Fine. Together again, huh?
Wouldn't miss it.
How are we doing?
The same as always.
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?
I'm here.
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed that you are to be terminated immediately.
Good, I hate long waits.
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.
(to Luke) Doesn't sound so bad.
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as you are slowly digested over a thousand years.
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever make.
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a big light blur.
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.
Oh... great!
(in Huttese subtitled) Soon you will learn to appreciate me.
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!
Hmm. I wish I had your confidence.
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasure from us. Right?
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.
(in Huttese subtitled) Move him into position.
(in Huttese subtitled) Put him in.
Easy, Chewie.
Whoa! Whoa! Help!
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?
I'm okay, pal.
Han! Chewie?
Lando!
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?
Lando, grab it!
Lower it!
I'm trying!
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!
Hold it! Whoa!
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.
No, wait! I thought you were blind!
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!
(to Leia) Get the gun! Point it at the deck!
Point it at the deck!
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.
Come on!
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.
We're on our way.
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!
That's all any of us can see.
(blinking) Then I guess I'm getting better.
(turning to Luke) I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.
(shrugging it off) I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide awake nothing!
(moving to his ship) I'll see you back at the fleet.
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's betrayal and subsequent aide) Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.
"He means ""You're welcome."""
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.
I'll meet you back at the fleet.
(over comlink) Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.
I will.
(over comlink) Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a promise to keep... to an old friend.
(to Vader) Rise, my friend.
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue your search for young Skywalker.
Yes, my Master.
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the Force.
As you wish.
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?
No... of course not.
(tickled, chuckles) I do, yes, I do! Sick have I become. Old and weak. (Points a crooked finger) When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.
Master Yoda, you can't die.
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the Force.
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.
Then I am a Jedi?
(shakes his head) Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.
Yoda, I must know.
Your father he is.
Told you, did he?
Yes.
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...
Unfortunate that I know the truth?
(gathering all his strength) No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your training. Not ready for the burden were you.
Well, I'm sorry.
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware. Anger, fear, aggression. The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny.
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I (cough), the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... (with great effort) There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.
(OS) Yoda will always be with you.
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a certain point of view.
(turning away, derisive) A certain point of view!
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view.
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to your father was my fault.
Anakin was a good friend.
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the galaxy.
There's still good in him.
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.
I can't do it, Ben.
You cannot escape your destiny.
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been prepared.
But I had to help my friends.
(grinning at Luke's indignation) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.
(with sadness) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side - the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, you must face Darth Vader again!
I can't kill my own father.
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.
Yoda spoke of another.
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.
But I have no sister.
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
Leia! Leia's my sister.
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit. But they could be made to serve the Emperor.
(continuing his narrative) When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.
(attempting to give solace with his words) The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had long been a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not all she became, of course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause. That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became desperate.
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy Vader!
Well, look at you, a general, huh?
Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab.
(sarcastic) Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I didn't know they were lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.
(smiling) I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.
Well, who says they didn't. But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable one, remember?
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has come.
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the construction of this Death Star.
(cont) Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. Although the weapon systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.
(cont) General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack
Good luck.
You're gonna need it.
General Madine.
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and using a secret Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the shield generator.
Sounds dangerous.
(to Han) I wonder who they found to pull that off.
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.
(smiles) That's one.
Uh, General... count me in.
(OS) I'm with you, too!
What is it?
(hesitant) Ask me again sometime.
Luke.
Hi, Han... Chewie.
"""Exciting"" is hardly the word I would use."
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the help you can get. She's the fastest ship in the fleet.
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take good care of her. She-she won't get a scratch. All right?
(looks at him warmly) Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.
Look, would you get going, you pirate.
Good luck.
You, too.
You got her warmed?
Yeah, she's comin' up.
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed her, Chewie.
Hey, are you awake?
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.
(softly) Come on, General, let's move.
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, everybody?
All set.
Here we go again.
All right, hang on.
What is thy bidding, my Master?
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until called for.
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the command ship and await my orders.
Yes, my Master.
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty quick, Chewie.
(over radio) We have you on our screen now. Please identify.
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.
(over radio) Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.
Transmission commencing.
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.
It'll work. It'll work.
Vader's on that ship.
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance.
I don't know. Fly casual.
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.
Where is that shuttle going?
(into comlink) Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?
(filtered) Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.
Do they have a code clearance?
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.
Shall I hold them?
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.
(surprised) As you wish, my lord. (to controller) Carry on.
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.
(filtered) Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. Follow your present course.
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.
Shall we try and go around?
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.
(grins) Hey... it's me.
Go for help! Go!
(sarcastic) Great. Come on.
Over there! Two more of them!
I see them. Wait, Leia!
(pointing to the controls) Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!
Hey, wait! Ahhh!
Move closer!
Get alongside that one!
Get him!
(indicating the one ahead) Keep on that one! I'll take these two!
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!
Luke! Where's Leia?
(concerned) What? She didn't come back?
I thought she was with you.
We got separated.
Hey, we better go look for her.
Take the squad ahead. We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.
Come on, Artoo. We'll need your scanners.
Don't worry, Master Luke. We know what to do.
(to Artoo) And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!
Cut it out!
I'm not gonna hurt you.
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here is.
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.
All right. You want something to eat?
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery little thing, aren't you?
What is it?
Freeze! Come on, get up!
Go get your ride and take her back to base.
Yes, sir.
Come on, let's get outta here.
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the Force) The Emperor will see me, now!
(repeating Vader's command) The Emperor will see you, now.
I told you to remain on the command ship.
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.
(no surprise) Yes, I know.
(after a beat) My son is with them.
(very cool) Are you sure?
I have felt him, my Master.
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are clear, Lord Vader.
They are clear, my Master.
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.
(skeptical) He will come to me?
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will come to you and then you will bring him before me.
(bows) As you wish.
(OS) Luke! Luke!
Oh, Master Luke.
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.
(gravely) I hope she's alright.
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!
Hey, I don't get it.
(cont) Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.
Chewie, wa-wait! Don't!
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this thing. (trying to free an arm) Han, can you reach my lightsaber?
Yeah, sure.
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-op!!
Wha--? Hey! Point that thing someplace else.
Hey!
Han, don't. It'll be all right.
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!
Do you understand anything they're saying?
Oh, yes, Master Luke! Remember that I am fluent in over six million forms of communication.
What are you telling them?
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god.
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.
Proper?!
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.
Why, you--
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.
I have a really bad feeling about this.
What did he say?
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor.
Leia!
Oh!
Your Royal Highness.
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic.
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --
Just tell them.
"You see, Master Luke
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! Oh!
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.
Thanks, Threepio.
(still shaken) I...I never knew I had it in me.
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.
What's going on?
I don't know.
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.
Just what I always wanted.
(chuckles) Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. (to Wicket) Thank you. Okay.
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield generator.
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try and get our weapons back.
(cont) And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.
Luke, what's wrong?
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.
What do you remember?
Just...images, really. Feelings.
Tell me.
(a little surprised at his insistence) She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad. (looks up) Why are you asking me all this?
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?
Vader is here...now, on this moon.
(alarmed) How do you know?
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. That's why I have to go. (facing her) As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here. (beat) I have to face him.
Why?
He's my father.
Your father?
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and could never have.
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has it...I have it...and...my sister has it.
Yes. It's you Leia.
I know. Somehow...I've always known.
Then you know why I have to face him.
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave this place. I wish I could go with you.
No, you don't. You've always been strong.
But, why must you confront him?
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try.
Hey, what's goin' on?
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.
(angry) Nothing? Come on, tell me. What's goin' on?
I...I can't tell you.
(loses his temper) Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?
I...
Ahhh...
I'm sorry.
Hold me.
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct a further search of the area.
He was armed only with this.
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his companions to me.
Yes, my Lord.
The Emperor has been expecting you.
I know, father.
So, you have accepted the truth.
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.
(turning to face him) That name no longer has any meaning for me.
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your Emperor now.
(indicating lightsaber) I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has foreseen.
Come with me.
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.
If that is your destiny.
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict within you. Let go of your hate.
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature of the Force. He is your master now.
Then my father is truly dead.
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that landing platform. This isn't gonna be easy.
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily guarded than this.
What's he saying?
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.
(VO) Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down on time... (to himself) or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.
(VO) All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.
All right. Stand by.
Back door, huh? Good idea.
(cont) It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.
(with self-confident grin) Then we'll do it real quiet-like.
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!
Quiet.
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.
Oh, no.
(sighs) There goes our surprise attack.
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. We'll take care of this.
I have decided that we shall stay here.
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.
You no longer need those.
Guards, leave us.
(to Luke) I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call me Master.
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are mistaken...about a great many things.
His lightsaber.
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with you.
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.
Your overconfidence is your weakness.
Your faith in your friends is yours.
It is pointless to resist, my son.
(angry) Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. (indicates Endor) Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...
(cont) ...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them.
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when your friends arrive.
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.
Charges! Come on, come on!
(to Wicket) Oh, my! They'll be captured!
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.
Freeze! You Rebel scum.
All wings report in.
Red Leader standing by.
Gray Leader standing by.
Green Leader standing by.
Lock S-foils in attack positions.
May the Force be with us.
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up or down. Well, how could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.
(VO) I get no reading. Are you sure?
Pull up! All craft pull up!
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.
It's a trap!
(over comlink) Fighters coming in.
There's too many of them!
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.
Copy, Gold Leader.
Come, boy. See for yourself.
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and the end of your insignificant Rebellion.
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my servant.
No!
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now mine!
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?
Bring those two down here!
Let's go!
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?
Freeze! Don't move!
We surrender.
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.
The code's changed. We need Artoo!
Here's the terminal.
(into comlink) Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!
Got it!
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical frigate.
Pressure's steady.
Only the fighters are attacking. I wonder what those Star Destroyers are waiting for.
We're in attack position now, sir.
Hold here.
We're not going to attack?
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle station. (into comlink) Fire at will, Commander.
Fire!
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! (into comlink) Home One, this is Gold Leader.
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel firepower of that magnitude.
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.
We're coming!
Come on! Come on!
Oh, Artoo, hurry!
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.
I'll cover you.
(desperately) Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star Destroyers at point- blank range.
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might just take a few of them with us.
She's gonna blow!
I'm hit!
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will die...as will your friends.
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless. Take your weapon! Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark side will be complete.
Look!
Get him off of there!
I think I got it. I got it!
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?
Let's see.
It's not bad.
(OS) Freeze!
Oh, dear.
Don't move!
I love you.
I know.
Hands up! Stand up!
(to Leia) Stay back.
Chewie! Get down here! She's wounded! No, wait.... I got an idea.
(laughing) Good. Use your aggressive feelings, boy! Let the hate flow through you.
Obi-Wan has taught you well.
I will not fight you, father.
You are unwise to lower your defenses.
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the conflict.
There is no conflict.
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe you'll destroy me now.
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny.
(laughs) Good. Good.
Watch out. Squad at .06.
I'm on it, Gold Leader.
Good shot, Red Two.
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.
(VO) It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.
Yes, sir.
Throw me another charge.
You cannot hide forever, Luke.
I will not fight you.
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially for...
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
Never-r-r!
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side!
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. I am a Jedi, like my father before me.
So be it...Jedi.
Move! Move!
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. (laughs) Told you they'd do it!
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You have paid the price for your lack of vision.
(groans) Father, please. Help me.
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.
I'm going in.
Here goes nothing.
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power generator.
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of those TIE fighters to follow you.
Copy, Gold Leader.
That was too close.
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on that Super Star Destroyer.
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.
Intensify forward firepower!
It's too late!
(a whisper) Luke, help me take this mask off.
But you'll die.
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my own eyes.
(very weak) Now...go, my son. Leave me.
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save you.
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you were right.
Father...I won't leave you.
There it is!
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.
They did it!
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.
He wasn't. I can feel it.
You love him, don't you?
Yes.
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the way.
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.
